# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-11-20

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Eloisa Guerrero, Jen Strickland, Susannah Hill, James Christie, Rose Newell, Jeroen Hulscher, Emma Horrell, Hidde de Vries, Siddesh Wagle, Ryan Sholin


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
 https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/ikLYZaQriV0YqVM8qc8Hajj8yPvo1M1S2XUtEp9qa-C4jovWYZNsYnJWEPeB94sb.AYAUGm--_JXctLWj
Passcode: +rfA0^0Q 

## Scribe

Hidde de Vries


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Last meeting was two weeks ago, no comments from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - TPAC Review ([Minutes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/minutes/2025-11-13.md)) (Tzviya and/or Mike)

     - Hidde: Many comparisons between AG and WSG, all afraid of greenwashing/a11ywashing and still being useful

     - Mike: It was great to see we didn’t get questions on whether sustainability is relevant or valid… just about how to achieve it. Loved to see the semantic framework Alex built around it was useful. Good participation.

     - Tim: We had our own meetings and also meetings with other groups.

     - Jen: There are some places where doing the right thing from a sustainability perspective doesn’t equal doing the right thing from a web performance perspective (see minutes of that meeting). The WebPerf group has people from all the browsers, and it stood out to me that we don’t. Browsers can measure a lot of perf things.

     - Mike (in chat): was also great to see both Chrome and Firefox folk in the WebPerf meeting were interested in exposing more energy consumption metrics.

     - Jen: would love to continue to meet with the WebPerf WG.

     - Tzviya: also found the meeting with WebPerf important, lot of brain power in the room, browsers in the room and ‘the right people’. Also great to see Fershad connect with Bas Schouten of Mozilla, and with many others. Great effect of being in person together, easier to make things happen.

     - Alex: I hope that by having a framework from the work with GWF we’ll be able to plug that in for the measurability of WSG.

   - Clarification on [Hosting/Infra edit](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/194) (Susannah/Ryan)

     - Ryan: I found the review challenging…not sure what has changed between the live WSG and what we have in the Doc.

     - Alex: they’ll be tracked on GitHub. The last major release of the specification was in September.

     - Ryan: we’ll be biased to replacing things in the doc. Is there are things there that stand out as things that were specifically edited to be this way by you and Rose, feel free to leave as is.

     - Alex: would be helpful to see what differences have been made in that document, in comparison to the living WSG.

     - Rose: sounds good. Wrote a GH issue with gaps that haven’t been addressed a while ago, have those be included or can I help?

     - Ryan: yes, goal was to cover the gaps in all the GH issues, let me know if any is missing. Not sure what’s the best way to make a diff, in Google Docs or a PR?

     - Alex: as long as Rose is happy with the tech edits, I can run in it through my diffing tool.

     - Jen: what do we mean by ‘WSG won’t get longer’?

     - Mike: it’s already too long, we want to minimise what we try and get in to make the document more useful to people, conciseness is important.

     - Jen: long-tail, say in 5 years from now, I anticipate things growing and things become obsolete, including in possible future versions.

     - Alex: we do have some outstanding stuff marked for inclusion into WSG, that will fill some gaps, necessary to make WSG as comprehensive as we can do. We don’t want it to come out and get feedback that certain stuf is not covered. We also have a number of outstanding overlaps and known repetitions, that we plan to trim, this is on my to do list before the December deadline.

   - **Content organization:** Proposal: Adopt [Sid’s/Jen’s proposal for content organization](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/133) (without sub-heads because of overlap with filters) with UX reorganization (#[189](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/189))

     - Tzviya: This is a proposal about reorganising the UX section, chairs and I would like to use the organisation but not the subheads as that overlaps with the filtering. So each section gets reorganised, and no items are taken out, none of the items are moving out of their section.

     - Jen: would like the headings to reflect the order in which teams do things. Not sure if I fully understand overlapping of the filters yet… the tooling should serve the menu, not the other way around.

     - Alex: proposal was that content would appear in the natural reading flow, we are intending to group content together logically. But currently we’re working out logistics around subheading structure in respec and other tooling.

     - Tzviya: not all subsections worked so well, this is about uniformity, we understand the idea of maintaining vision for the future, but can manage in other ways.

     - Jen: I suspect every section within WSG will have things added to it, we should design for the future. Tooling should be designed for the content, not the other way around.

     - Tzviya: neither method precludes future updates, both approaches are fine.

     - Tim: please add your comments in the GitHub issue ([#189](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/189)) for this.

     - Tzivya: next week there will be a meeting, despite Thanksgiving, as many here are not American.

   - Preview tagging system (Alex)

     - Alex: Previously, finding what you wanted has been tricky. In the new rewritten version, it is much easier to work with: there is a switcher component integrated with the spec’s TOC, that switches between Contents and Filters. If you activate filters, they are organised into columns, and there’s a reset button. The TOC is updated based on the selected filters. From a request at TPAC, I also made it so that you can bookmark/share the state of the filters. Hopefully the upgrade helps increase visibility of what we have and makes it easier to refer to.

     - Tim: is there a way to see ‘showing results for X/Y’?

     - Tzviya: ReSpec is limited, it is kind of miraculous that this is built into ReSpec as is. Thinking of how guidance works at WCAG, a lot of the info is available on the WAI website, separate from WCAG. The filter Alex has built here is to navigate the spec. Have to draw the line somewhere.

     - Rose: found the WSG JSON great to use when building tools on top of the WSG, I built something like @@@ in WordPress but for WSG. I found the WCAG JSON isn’t as easy to work with in code, eg it contains HTML in some places.

     - Jen: curious about the UX change of order or sub categories, I think I missed something and would like to hear more about it.

     - Tzviya: feel free all to log an issue on GitHub regarding this (in [sustainableweb-wsg](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues)).

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Tzviya: announcement of an editorial change: we promoted Alex to Lead Editor and Rose to Editor. _balloons and popping effects all over Zoom in celebration_

   - Jen: no UX meeting tomorrow

   - Jen: a bunch of issues need to be squished, don’t go by our order yet.

   - Tzivya: not ready for comments yet?

   - Jen: welcome to comment but please don’t start implementing the order yet, am hoping we’ll have fewer items.
