# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-11-27

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Jen Strickland, Thorsten Jonas, Hidde de Vries, Sarah Zama, James Christie, Siddhesh, Jeroen Hulscher, Chris Adams, Adam Newman, Rose Newell, Andrew Wright


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vIi4i8tAuO2ELZCdAXpR5WItJBZVSeEX/view?usp=sharing

## Scribe

Hidde de Vries


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Reordering/grouping of the spec will take place in the next round ([see the UX TF Slack thread](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C048J3X9CFK/p1764176281495359) for the notice).

   - **Alex:** we have a lot of duplication in the spec (meaning we say the same thing in W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2025 - Google Documentendifferent SCs), I looked for the “worst offenders”, me and Rose went through them and spoke to others in the TFs and looked at how to consolidate. Ensured everything is still there, but cleaned up. This is different from the reorg proposed by Jen and Sid.

   - **Jen:** I’m concerned the editor’s moved on with content that hasn’t been indicated as ready by the TF leads.

   - **Alex:** do understand the frustration, but we do need to get these changes through before the final deadline, this is a small timeframe for us to submit the work. Three W3C members approached me to address these issues before submitting. Me and Rose did a lot of effort to ensure the content / integrity of what we’re submitting hasn’t changed (other than things like location in doc). 

   - **Jen:** the content changes shouldn’t be happening without the leads involved. It concerns me that this is happening without communication. The strength of W3C is that we balance everyone’s input when making content together. It is important that the work has the input from everyone, not decisions from a few. There’s a lot of content in WSG that needs to be streamlined. 

   - **Hidde:** What do we mean by ‘W3C members’? Individual people usually aren’t members?

   - **Jen:** there were some chats with various AC reps and members of TAG and Board who gave input.

   - **Jen:** Alex mentioned that there’s no reordering before the deadline because of time pressure.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - Please check the [proposed-closing](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22propose-closing%22) issues (as they relate to stuff upcoming to resolution so if you have a reason to object to discussion being closed - state so!)

     - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/88> - 

       - **Jen:** people didn’t want to rename to Developer, that’s fine.

     - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/81> 

       - **Rose:** I am good with closing it as long as we point to wherever we continue the conversation. Not sure if there is a new issue yet (probably 194).

     - **Jen:** figuring out which WSG repo to use would be helpful as it is confusing where which type of issues need to go.

   - **Alex:** Currently working on all of the [overlapping materials](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/5) and splitting Business and product [as requested by that Task Force](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/business-product/aug21-2025-workshop-notes.md).

   - Content is still welcome on GitHub, even if we can’t get to it this time around it will be useful for the next round (and persuasive arguments for rechartering!).

     - **Rose:** Could Alex talk to the pressures around the process?

     - **Alex:** December 15 is the final deadline for the content, hopefully we will get rechartered for the next round. Our doc will be a living document. I can remap what the recommendations are from UX TF currently to where it has been updated. What we’re mostly doing now is avoid duplication.

     - **Hidde:** What is this living document type? I’m not aware of an actual ‘living’ document in the Process, the doc that governs the types of documents at W3C. I’m worried about regulations, how can regulators refer to a doc that can change?

     - **Alex:** Tzviya is the best person to ask about the type of document. Note the publications would still have date stamps and folks could refer to those dated version URIs.

     - **Jen:** Tzviya has previously referred to it being similar to how CSSWG publishes things.

     - **Jen:** I’m worried things have progressed too quickly and I didn’t have enough chance to review the work that has now progressed by editors.

   - Roundtable discussion during remaining time (anything needing clarity / resolving).

     - **Sid:** I am curious to understand the process towards publication better.

     - **Jen:** Would like a presentation from chairs and editors on the roadmap for the next while.

     - **Mike:** [Timeline](https://github.com/mgifford/w3c-tpac-susty-breakout/blob/main/Templates/timeline.svg).

     - **Alex:** a lot of it involves W3C tooling for publication and software like ReSpec.

       - <https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-ig/>

     - **Hidde:** [**W3C Process**](https://www.w3.org/policies/process/)

     - **Jen:** [Here is an example of a roadmap that would help](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/caregivers/discovery/20191001%20Caregiver%20Discovery%20Sprint%202%20Roadmap.pdf), beginning on a page titled Prioritized Roadmap. This one doesn’t include dates, but one this group would create should include the target dates. The broader the understanding of schedule, the fewer issues we will have about timelines.

     - **Alex:** Another document that is useful ([W3C Process for Busy People](https://github.com/w3c/wg-effectiveness/blob/main/process.md)).

     - **Hidde:** [**The W3C Guidebook**](https://www.w3.org/guide/)

     - **Alex:** [**Our Github resources**](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/README.html#resources)

   - **UX Task Force (UXTF)**

     - Jen is currently reviewing each of the taskforce-ux issues to consolidate the input. She will compose a resolution and then invite folks to vote / finalize before handing it over as ready for Alex. She needs some focused heads-down time to do so.

4. **Community + News**

   - **Alex:** I’ll be giving a talk at a local GSF event in the new year on the WSG!

   - **Rose:** I am working on a sustainable icon project, will do a launch event in the future.

   - **Rose:** I also published my recent research into sustainability of fonts

   - Green I/O <https://greenio.tech/conferences>

     - Chris: I am running a workshop on the first day.

   - **Chris:** There is an incredibly important consultation from the GHG protocol ongoing. Please see Rose’s v helpful links in the #sustainability channel (shared for convenience below)

     -  [WEBINAR Replay](https://youtu.be/u0UpcbLlnAk) - Shape the Future: GHG Protocol Scope 2 Revisions and Expert Q\&A (Nov 6, 2025)

     -  [GHGP Scope 2 Consultation Guidebook \[PDF](https://scopetrue.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/GHGP-Scope-2-Public-Guidebook.pdf)]

     -  [GHGP Scope 2 Public Consultation Site](https://ghgprotocol.org/ghg-protocol-public-consultations) \[Site for Comments & Submissions]

   - **Jen:** I’ll be speaking at the March 2026 CSUN to highlight the WSG, as well.

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - None

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - None