# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-08-14

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/85

**Attendees:** Tim Frick (Chair), Ines Akrap (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Andrew Wright, Ryan Sholin, Jen Strickland, Eloisa Guerrero, François Burra, Siddhesh Wagle, Denis Didier


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/9ay1GjtP3BGf9dsS7SxSs3h4c0gYDV6_XSVaySiTb4Y22JgElY0fpayUmhDfhTG6.BHsOI6ZrtaxeYFKy
Passcode: FH0yR86? 

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. Product / Business plans - meeting on Tuesday
   - 1hr Workshop Session - 11 EDT
     - Splitting up Business and Product - we will discuss moving guidelines around - x-ref product, biz, UX
4. [Metrics next steps](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96) - how to index low, medium, and high
   - Tzviya: Metric TF has not met since last week. There is a spreadsheet that Fershad put together with every SC as it stands now. The goal is to map it via GRI to indicate whether it is high, medium, or low. We don’t have a way to index it to measure that -- we need objective criteria, and need to figure out how to create that index.

   - Ryan: The key question is whether we need another column in the spreadsheet to say that these are the things that a developer, engineer, or platform engineer who will be using the guidelines that they have some control over such as what can reduce water usage? We can map any functional use case to a success criterion, e.g. reducing servers to use less energy and water mapped to Energy, Water, and the large buckets of impact. Need to comment on the GitHub issue: <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96> ([Done](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96#issuecomment-3188818272) - RS)

   - Tzviya: UX TF mentioned metrics last week and we want to make sure we understand your issues/concerns.

   - Jennifer: We have a miro board with ideas on how we might do measurements: check different things and assign a rating/number to get certain scores, but we are not sure how viable that is with the W3C way of doing things.

   - Tim: Discussed this back in 2022 about ways to apply measurability including scores, the challenge is that digital products/services are different and it feels like we are shoehorning.

   - Alex: We spoke about in the metrics meeting (<https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/metrics/Metrics2025-08-05.md>) the potential of having a set amount of things that we’re measuring, e.g. data transfer or CPU; tangible units that can be applied across a wide gambit. Not strictly set against code or a single/one of the categories. If we only look at a single aspect, not everything can be measured in that way. If we had different amounts of values, or if something can’t be measured, we can average it out and come up with some variable or score which balances out, based on the things we can measure. We can have a set amount of variables that apply at least across all of the SC because we’ve got data points to back us up.

   - Tim: What is the roadmap there? What is something simple that we can do first and progress as we go forward?

   - Alex: The quickest way is to look at all the SC and see what variables are going to apply to most SC. Data transfer, impact on hardware, CPU, GPU, etc. can be impact points that we can measure where some are evidence-backed. As long as we have some that apply to all SC, we can come up with a score.

   - Tzviya: Go through Alex’s spreadsheet and pick out the most relevant variables. It would be sufficient to include a paragraph somewhere in there, and say how we plan to do it/ have a plan of action.

     - ACTION ITEM @ METRICS: choose criteria from Alex’s variables spreadsheet for GRI mapping: <https://websitesustainability.com/cache/files/variables.pdf>

   - Alex: Working on the introduction -- is it worth creating an outline of what our methodologies are, or editor’s notes that can elaborate that it is going to keep evolving or progressing so that W3C members can have that information.

   - Tzviya: There could be a section called Metrics.

   - Sid: Have you thought about categorising under, e.g. UX Design -- categorise them into different buckets, such as user-centred design and accessibility, sustainability and environmental impact. It would be of use to developers to know what aspects they need improvement on or are doing well in.

   - Jennifer: We have that on the table for UX TF, and put it in the spreadsheet. How can we evaluate our performance in certain buckets and think about how to chunk/group them.

     - Reticence about grouping things by roles. Many developers have to be designers and should think about what someone needs to accomplish.

   - Tzviya: We have to get to publishing this version before TPAC. The decision on role-based structure or other organisational structure is something we can implement later.

5. [Goals as defined in intro](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/94)

   - Tzviya: Discussion about how we define the word “sustainable”, we have this conversation in GitHub, which morphed into the question on how we define what’s measurable.

   - Tim: We’ve been using the term “sustainability”, but it’s not just about energy or carbon emissions, for example, but we need to be more explicit about how it is defined and why/reasoning behind it, in the introduction in the guidelines.

   - Alex: We have a good introductory supplement created as an introduction to web sustainability. A lot of people don’t read intros in specifications, but we’ve got great supplementary intros that talk about the subject in more detail. The introduction can act as an overview with more explicit information on why we made these decisions and how they connect to the guidelines and sustainability.

     - Working with Rose on tightening the introduction.

   - Tzviya: Important that it is in the document itself, to have a concise definition of sustainability. “Sustainability is reducing the demand for physical devices and the natural resource consumption associated with them” -- need to tweak this slightly. Should change “physical devices” to “reduce demand for resources” or something along those lines. We need to get the concept of the web in there that pulls in the people, the devices associated with the web, the whole supply chain, etc.

   - Alex: We can have a bereft version in this spec and can go into further detail in the supplements. We need to have a general definition without overbloating the intro material.

   - Tim: Relevant to Business and Product guidelines.

6. Should we include TRIM (or GOLD) in the introduction?

   - [Reminder of both abbreviations](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Fsw38rJ0IgF_Vhln6IrSG5YmO6zWk9Fu/view?usp=sharing).

   - Tim: 2 Proposals similar to POUR -- Transparent, Resilient, Inclusive, Minimal (TRIM) and Green Open Lean and Distributed (GOLD). -- should we include something like this in the guidelines?

   - Jen: Should hold off on this until the next milestone. Would like to do a user research workshop to co-create with users of the WSG.

   - Alex: Concept of this is in opposition to being reliant on Sustainable Web Manifesto -- as good as it is, and as something we leaned on, it’s not something we can provide as a clarifying source. It’s not grounded in evidence or something we can use as an academic resource. We can say that GOLD/TRIM is something that the W3C Group has come up with that aligns with the work we have produced. An abbreviation would help to say what we are effectively about and to give people something easier to memorise..

   - Tzviya: I think we should hold off on this for now.

   - Tim: Not realistic to workshop this between now and April.

   - Tzivya: We are 2 weeks short of a year into our charter -- halfway through. Trying to get this version out before TPAC so it can be reviewed and discussed. We have 9 months left to finish this -- we’re running out of time.

   - Tim: We want to get rechartered for another 2 years, we need to show significant progress as a good benchmark for allowing us to continue this work.

   - Alex: If there are things we can’t accomplish this time, we can use that as a case for rechartering.

7. **Community + News**

   - [Interesting threads in Slack on data center water use](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C02JETQAQG4/p1755085011506029)

     - Tim: Good information in the above thread -- anything we can get more clarity around that stuff is helpful.

     - Jen: Have we also started doing any kind of measurement/capturing of data around health impacts on populations around these data centres?

     - Alex: There has been a study in Memphis.

     - Jen: As we think about WSG, we could call out the hypocrisy but also talk about illness -- human health -- but also non-human impact.

     - Alex: Will be tricky for us to do that kind of measurement, there’s available data publicly but there are a few things that aren’t being measured.

     - Ryan: Focusing on the web is narrow, all the impacts of data centres upstream of that are at least addressed in our guidelines about hosting platforms and architecture such as choosing a sustainable data centre, using less energy, using renewable energy, making energy-efficient decisions, and so on. There are existing metrics that we can use, existing ways to calculate that, but I don’t think we should offer in the guidelines how to measure.

     - Tzviya: Holly is a good person to talk to about effects on humans but would be for version 2.

     - Sid: Are there metrics we can explore? Consumption of data centres, for example. It can be an experimental kind of study to see whether that has a real impact on communities.

     - Ryan: If you’re building websites, what should your concerns be? The guidelines cover: using web hosts that care about these things, optimising for energy efficiency, etc. There are standards getting written for how to measure the impact of carbon intensity; it’s a broader sustainability question but I don’t know if that’s something W3C should tackle.

8. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)**

   - [**WSG**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)**:** None

   - **IG:** None

9. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Jen: A lot of us don’t know each other, a bit of intros would be nice. 
