# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-10-30

**Attendees:** Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Susannah Hill, Jen Strickland, Sid Waggle, Crystal Preston-Watson


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/pJmMZDsayYsRbfiLeJ3cxaRV-oENQjnORyiOSF9yz5XoG0eLGr6hthp9JJ3pro-_.l71l5azoJXoq8-cn
Passcode: #VEgw7aK 


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) and [Incident Resolution](https://www.w3.org/guide/process/coc-incident-resolution-ombuds.html).

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - **Alex:** Another reminder - final deadline for GH submissions is **15th November**.
     Please submit issues for bugs to be fixed, updates to text, or new content gaps to be filled as new guidelines / success criteria (etc).

   - **Tim:** What happens if something new comes up between now and April?

   - **Tzviya:** There will be wide review/horizontal review to be taken into account as well

   - **Alex:** HR/WR are highest priority. There are things that will be larger project that we might have to defer. If it’s after Nov, I might be able to get quick fixes in. I will try get Mission Critical things in. We can defer things to future editions in a re-charter - build up the case for re-charter.

   - **Tim:** Everyone in the group should go through the AI updates. Things are changing rapidly, we might need to have a look.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - Filters and multiPage (Visibility vs convenience/readability discussion).

     - Tzviya: I had a conversation with Ken from systems team. He is doing a lot of experimentation. He took a look at the guidelines and we had an interesting conversation about how to optimize for the user. He noticed that the labels are difficult to discover. Also, once you choose your labels, if you click on the TOC, your label selections disappear. How valuable is the multi-page view with respect to labels? Should we get rid of the multi-page to make labels more accessible. The labels are really valuable.

     - Tim: This is a really useful feature and it looks too buried to me.

     - Alex will speak to Ken about possibilities

     - Tzviya: Getting rid of the multi-page is fine if it makes it easier to read.

     - Susanna: Adding a search feature would be useful.

     - Jen: The CSS spec is lovely in reader view. Our page doesn’t render at all in the reader view. Since we are using a lot of javascript, but I’m not sure. If we look at it then it will make it more accessible. Also need to look at dark and light mode. Need opt-in.

Examples: <https://www.w3.org/webperf/>

<https://www.w3.org/TR/css-2025/>

- Alex: Our doc in full-doc mode works in reader mode:

<https://www.w3.org/TR/web-sustainability-guidelines/#full-document>

If we get rid of the multi-page it will take care of reader's view.

- Jen can help with the UX of the w3c website

- Tzviya: I agree we need to make this document as sustainable as possible, but we might need to focus on getting the document out then work with W3C on improving the sustainability of the existing tools.

* Two New Proposals to review: [#166](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/166) / [#167](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/167) - To be carried on GitHub

* [**AI update**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u6fNw_NHUprUg4cUASxAyyl2YtXAypzepACeBbVQFaI/edit?tab=t.0)

  - **Alex:** My personal feeling and Rose’s too, they are possibly best placed in the sections in the guidelines rather than a dedicated section as AI applies to many of the sections. It is an infrastructure, frontend, product issue.

  - Susannah: We need to go with YES, and. It is disruptive enough, we need a separate section.

  - Jen; Perhaps in the introduction we include AI.

  - Alex: I am planning to add an AI tag. It will pull all the guidelines that contain AI related guidelines.

  - Tzviya: I like Susannah and Jen’s suggestion.

  - Tim: AI needs to be part of the discussion in the chair meetings.

  - Susannah: Instead of telling people to train ethical, tell people to develop principles to train AI. Building a policy to watch for it.

  - Jen: One of the things I’ve struggled with the guidelines, I keep wanting to put recommendations and examples. But they are all products. Is there a way that groups have, eg. go read that blog. Do your best to submit proposals, write blogs.

* **UX TF:** Please can participants review this [Slack thread](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C048J3X9CFK/p1761664199710889) and respond with urgency as the deadline for feedback is at the end of the month! ([UX Review](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20%22UX%20Review%3A%22))

* TPAC Breakout session ([Register](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/f7fcc7e0-49fc-4636-bd06-9f31babc0352/))

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
