# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2025-12-11


**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Sorca Duffy, Sarah Zama, Susannah Hill, Jeroen Hulscher, Hidde de Vries, Crystal Preston-Watson, Adam Newman, Siddesh Wagle

### Regrets for today:
James Christie, Emma Horrell


### Recording
Permission to record and share

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/lAHvVojvyFHwBVO\_5PEy1a69Jh\_AjDmWgPkE4uFP-TzZgVHlelfNl4oobik\_gPIz.6EDeNjYqGbIZ4TT2?startTime=1765461911000

Passcode: ++U38eQ4


### Scribes

Sarah Zama

Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** [Progress report](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/197) on Q4 release (15th Dec)!

**Alex** :

- Pulling together the final elements and gives thanks to all involved. Gone through the overlaps.

- Testability statements have been removed

- Benefits have been put into a supplement - can be optimised over time

- Feedback from UX and hosting has been included as much as possible (Rose has been super helpful making the changes)

- Working on new resources and fixing bugs

- Double and triple checking everything - avoiding bugs and quirks. Confident it will be good for the 15th December - release date

- Hoping to have it complete 12th December or over the weekend.

**Tzviya:**

- Any comments to be given by end of today 11 the December

* [Metrics (for review) - Guideline impact ratings and scoring](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178) - discuss approach and feedback

* There is a score that rolls up impact rating for People, Planet, and Proseperity (1, 2, or 3 for each) plus impact timeframe (3, 2, or 1 for short, medium or long)

* Fershad went through all success criteria to provide score based on this method

* Alex: Merging means some scores will need adjusting in the spreadsheet

- Mike: Believes there will be opposition to the approach of creating a scoring system but we should be aware and happy with what has already been created as a starting point

- Tzviya: How does this tool help with reporting? Most in this industry will deal with Scope 3 reporting. How does this help? Is this a helpful model?

- Alex:  We can evolve the concept and scoring over time. We can eventually plug this into SCI for Web numbers so that this is relevant for reporting.

- Hidde: Could there be multiple systems for multiple needs? We know that the science changes, but we will need a score to be stable for regulatory purposes. We don’t want to have to keep a score (the way we do for WCAG) because science changes so frequently.

- +1 from Jeroen, could be really helpful for adoption, also for governments for example.

- Alex: Would it be helpful to separate ESG scoring, so there is more clarification between each one? If there was more nuance e.g on the governance side, it may negate some of the issues being discussed.

- Adam: Scoring models changing between models - faced with the same questions with the modelling work they have been doing. Models can improve over time, but need some benchmark and parameters to compare and contrast against.

- Tzviya: Add comments to the Github issues

- Alex: Metrics/measurability need to be done by March <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/?tab=readme-ov-file#schedule>

- Tzviya: Request initial feedback to be in before the Christmas break/Holidays

* Consensus to request TAG review

- Proposal: After Alex merges Q4 releases we will submit WSG for TAG review

- **Resolved:** After Alex merges Q4 releases we will submit WSG for TAG review

* Conformance

  - Tzviya: Who is our audience and what does it mean to conform? Looking at WCAG as a parallel: people say they conform to WCAG, but they mean they conform to legislation that points to WCAG. WCAG is defining their conformance model by explaining how to fulfill SCs, it makes sense for us to as well to avoid issues like greenwashing. Most of the Guidelines that are not machine testable should have strictly documented requirements.

  - We might want to consider when the scoring system is being developed

  - Rose: As a project, would it help people who do web projects to go through the guidelines and document how they believe they do or do not conform, as a sort of act of discovery, maybe also uncovering ambiguity? 

  - Tzviya: Rose’s suggestion is a kind of testing, which is also useful, but is not the same kind of conformance. I will contact the people in the group involved with regulation.

[Alternate meeting time](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/115)

- Tim: Reading through the comments made on github - trying to come to agreement for a new time. There is a vote for everyone to do. It is for an alternate time time once a month for a meeting that is easier for differing timezones to meet. It will replace the regular Thursday meeting. Expect an invitation for 00:00 UTC on a day of the week TBD in January once a month.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
