# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-12-04

**Attendees:** Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jeroen Hulscher, Emma Horrell, Rose Newell (Editor), Nick Lewis, James Christie, Chris Adams, Crystal Preston-Watson, Andrew Wright, Jennifer Strickland


### Regrets for today
Sorca Duffy, Siddesh Waggle, Ines Akrap


### Recording
Permission given to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/FGQUl16MrAr3Il-VOcDVKohN95Y0zFn6v6capyIld88Y6NPm6oJbeXU_hJgKD27c.SMG52LNgXK6o6FLi>

Passcode: qR70I@!E


## Scribes
James Christie and various


## Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
   - Introducing Jeroen

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - Tzviya reflects

     - Reflecting on last meeting and thoughts on tone.

     - “We are a group that takes pride on inclusion”.

     - There is tension that needs to be tackled so we can return to the friendlier tone.

     - Reminder that we can reach out for help: <https://www.w3.org/guide/process/coc-incident-resolution-ombuds.html>

     - Organisers welcome being contacted also.

     - Ombuds are available. They are not mediators but advisors.

     - Information on how to escalate is in the link above.

     - “Respect one another, and respect each other's time”.

     - Suggest that we limit individual comments to 2 minutes. There is a lot of work to do and not enough time.

     - Points of order etc - can be handled offline (while respecting the right to be an upstander).

     - Review underway of Invited Experts list.

     - Suggestion from Jennifer S: ability to say “put a pin it” (defer to later, e.g. discuss offline).

     - Tim reminds us that the agenda is circulated ahead of time, so topics for group discussion can be suggested ahead of time.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** [Should we (for now) remove “Testable” STAR references within the spec?](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/25)

     - Alex: there are many items listed as testable (x-ref with STAR); right now we don’t have the tooling to work out what is really testable or not. Jeffery Yasskin (in GitHub)suggests we remove these references until testability is achievable.

     - The techniques will remain; references to STAR will also remain in the introduction etc;

       - The STAR document itself will still have links to the WSG.

     - **Proposal:** Declarations of testability to be removed from the spec (for now). Specifically, the “bubbles” saying “human testable” and “machine testable”. **Resolved:** by Zoom Chat Vote.

     - Effort: light - find & replace (Alex)

   - **Alex:** [Break off the benefits into a supplement? If so, a new one or an existing one.](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/195)

     - The benefits are great talking points to promote the benefits of each SC. e.g. This SC is good for SEO and accessibility as well as sustainable.

     - Idea to move this material into a supplement. The contention - having too many non-sustainability benefits could be confusing.

     - Possible implementation - move this content to supplement, use a small bubble in spec to link to them.

     - Rose: it is confusing for users; it might be more user friendly to link out to a document/supplement. “More persuasion points”. When the benefits were added, it was before we had the Introductions to each chapter, where I added the benefits there. That avoids the repetition of similarly worded benefits in individual SCs. The point is there has been some evolution here, too.

     - Tzviya: I understand what Rose & Alex are saying about this being repetitive and non-normative, but we’ve had people asking how this relates to sustainability. Is there a way we can find a middle ground, because eventually we’ll get to the actual guidelines with an Understanding document.

     - Rose: At the moment we have these overlapping benefits, I would propose we find a way to address…

     - Rose: separate all the benefits into a supplement, then iterate to group benefits based on relationships and similarities. Removes redundancies.

       - Similar presentation to the Resources document(s).

     - Alex: Supplements are draft documents so not on the same timeline as the main specification.

     - Emma (in chat): I think that sounds sensible, as we're advocating for people applying all the guidelines to get all the benefits rather than to apply individual guidelines in an isolated way

     - Nick (in chat): This sounds like a nice idea. I feel it would give another way of exploring the document and contents, based on certain benefits to then link to the SCs

     - Rose: assign benefits IDs, JSON, so that it is easy to x-ref benefits and SCs - similar to the existing tagging system.

       - Rose, later, in chat: I realised that if Alex and I can categorise these benefits, we can make it more quantifiable - leading to stats like "80% of SCs have additional economic benefits".

       - Nick, in chat: That would be great for sharing WSG in the future!

       - Rose, in chat: I can look at/take technical leadership on this if/as needed, just not before the next publishing deadline. I heavily edited a lot of the benefits so it may well be more efficient for me (it'll be fresher in my memory than anyone else's).

     - Alex: The effort to remove the testable links is relatively straightforward. Can have this done by deadline.

     - **Resolved**: No dissenting opinions. (Benefits solution will be explored)

   - **Chris:** [SCI for Web Update](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/199)

     - **SLIDES**: [\[public\] An update on the SCI Web Update](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RttqFEnh4hdSuxBVIe6n_ZvHS6RFo2GCD6N05mDUnhQ/edit?slide=id.g3ad6edf8c56_0_46#slide=id.g3ad6edf8c56_0_46)

     - Chris presents the deck linked above. SCI workshop updates.

     - SCI Web is related to the Green Software Foundations’ Carbon Intensity ISO Standard. Intent is to make an easier-to-implement, focussed version.

       - Involved: GSF, W3C. Some overlap in groups, incl Alex Dawson and Ryan Sholin.

     - How sessions have gone: started in September with kickoffs - who is this for, personas, etc. Mostly asynchronous, one live video meeting.

       - Instead of weekly calls, participants ask questions (“who should we aim at this”). Email replies are then ingested by an LLM and synthesised. The synthesis is then shared back to the group.

       - If group approves LLM output, it is formalised somehow

     - Current state: still discussion who this is for, incentivization, scope (“what is a web application?”)

     - Snapshot (in slide deck) in Github. Main resource - the **SCI For Web - Assembly Report**

       - Includes evaluation criteria, tactics, etc.

       - Ask questions (in Github), Chris will respond.

       - Github link: <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/199>

     - **Contact**: Chris Adams, Alex Dawson, Ryan Sholin

     - **Q\&A:**

       - TS: where there is overlap with WSG work (ex:“avoid bloat”) guidelines; we need to not step on each others toes. What mechanism can we use to ensure compatibility?

         - CA: The spec can’t just say “look at the WSG”. Overlap should be ok, so long as they don’t clash. paraphrased heavily

       - TS: It’ll probably be clearer when I’ve seen the spec. It’ll be okay if Alex’s brain is involved in both.

       - Alex D: clear differences between SCI and WSG. SCI is more about measurement, WSG is more guidance / techniques. SCI will be more a tool for implementing WSGs.

       - Tim asks: how can we help most?

         - CA: We are having a January retro to review the spec-making process to date. You are free to add to the Github or message Chris; if you flag up concerns etc, then we’ll aim to discuss. “Not sure how using a robot to make a spec will actually work” - its novel. CA invites conversation.

           - He is mrchrisadams in the slack

           - Comments on the PR are welcome

       - TS: W3C slack is time-bound (in response to idea that there be a WSG-SCI slack channel) - older messages vanish. Encourages that we use the Github.

   - **Tzviya**: [Alternate meeting time discussion](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/115), meetings through EOY
           - Please add your comment on new meeting time. We will start something in the new year. We will not meet on Dec 25 or Jan 1.    

4. **Community + News**

   - [GreenIO Paris](https://greenio.tech/conference/17/paris-2025-december), Dec 9-11

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - The “UX Review” GitHub issues have all been turned over to Tzviya and Alex to determine next steps. Thank you to the UXTF for your speedy feedback!

     - AD: am working through these with Rose.

   - The UXTF is not meeting on December 5, and will be shutting down soon.
