# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2025-12-18


**Attendees**:  Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Anne Faubry, Andrew Wright, Thorsten Jonas


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/MvL9-4ZB1xz1gMofmMVLF_KhLbPEbOcfIotRloB13KDxI4eIOR1NeDA7yIX8xs2F.rtoP94-jvJEf8Ki8>

Passcode: 80E=4kqg


## Scribes

Anne


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - **Alex:** [WSG Q4 2025 has been released!](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/releases)

     - Our filter system has had a significant update. It used to be quite hidden.

       - It’s more visible, and tightly integrated into the spec Table Of Contents.

       - The table of contents updates as filters are applied.

       - We have query strings so active filters can be shared and bookmarked.

       - We have the AI tag, and a reset button.

     - Many Overlaps & Duplicates have been resolved:

       - **Before:** 92 Guidelines / 254 Success Criteria / 184 Pages.

       - **After:** 80 Guidelines / 224 SCs / 140 Pages.

       - **Don’t panic:** No content has been removed! Just moved/merged to better group it together so there are fewer cases of repetition.

     - Content updates! Especially to UX and Infrastructure (thanks to those Task Forces - myself and Rose did the best we could in the allocated time).

       - Introduction has been updated (and the summary doc as well!), thanks to Tim et al!

     - Testability bubbles are gone (until we can prove testability!).

     - Benefits have been extracted into a supplement where they can be iterated upon. Provide a more cohesive document around sustainability benefits.

     - Lots of new resources and link fixes.

     - 2nd biggest amount of contributors on a new release! 🎉Congrats to all

- **Alex:** Conformance and Impact - static API

  - The original intent was that the impact API would feed live impact reporting into the specs. So if models change we would be able to constantly update it, based on the latest science. Great for people who want the latest info but if people want something static for auditing it could be problematic.

  - Decided: Have a static copy of these numbers provided with the statement version of those specs + Keep a live running copy of the number which we constantly update in the repository. We can replace the existing copy when required. One can choose between the sources.

  - Benefits: It provides assurance for a certified copy for regulators AND the latest up to date numbers based on the latest metrics.

  - First Conformance meeting 17th dec 2025: the conformance API will complement the document of conformance model.

* [**Impact Ratings**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178) **review due by Jan 8**:

  - there are highlights where we need most reviews, **especially on the spreadsheet**. Make comments in GitHub with suggestions.
  - It will be an imperfect system but we need to find consensus and improve it over time. It won't apply perfectly to all criteria. Goal is to be transparent on how it is assessed by February.

  - In what framework do we want to insert this for easier appropriation?

  - Could it be possible to use AI to highlight what is underscored or overestimated depending on your context? Identifying which features are being consistently underrated? It is a larger conversation in W3C whether we use AI. If it is local like PyTorch, it's fine but if it is on a larger scale or LLMs, ask Tzviya first.

- How best to educate?

  - Tzviya and Alex are working in this and will share on that on Jan 8.

  - Tzviya, Rose already have decks of slides available. We cannot say W3C endorse our work but it is OK to communicate. → Create a shared group of resources. We could create a **GitHub repo to store slides**

  - [****Web sustainability guidelines Campaign Toolkit****](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kn7W9lUMD97Csn-2AEWp9sYzEoAp0gQ5dmfkHo6CukE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.m8pw8xk9iugh)

  - Goal is **Earth Day on April 22nd**.

  - Emma Horrell wrote a [blog post](https://blogs.ed.ac.uk/website-communications/from-sustainable-design-principles-to-practical-w3c-guidelines-making-digital-sustainability-happen-through-ux-design/) on her University website.

  - There might be a susty course later. Alex already has some material.

  - Thorsten: we could come up with 1-2 hour workshops, adapted for the GreenIO Conferences, maybe for different target groups.

  - Focus on different global markets: localize content to different countries, record who's where, **make sure every country is covered.**.. Make sure for example that Belgium is covered by France and Netherlands if there is no Belgian participant. We are missing most of Asia, South America, Russia...

  - Focus on that after the release.

* Confirm that Wed 6PM CT / 12AM UK / 1AM EU / 1PM NZ / 1-4PM Aus / 5:30AM India / 9AM Japan / 8AM China / 00:00 UTC works beginning **Jan 22**

  - Good time for Eastern Asia, West USA… Enables new people to attend

4. **Community + News**

   - [SCI for AI ratified](https://greensoftware.foundation/articles/sci-ai-specification-ratified-standard-for-measuring-ai-emissions-across-the)! A new model by the Green Software Foundation to better calculate AI emissions and impacts. 

   - European International gathering of NGOs at GreenIO Paris. Opening a Mattermost channel for international cooperation.

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD

[**Save the date**](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/sustainableweb/calendar/)**:** Next meeting is Jan 8, 2026.
