# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-10-30

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jen Strickland, Susannah Hill, Hidde de Vries, Crystal Preston-Watson, Ryan Sholin, Eloisa Guerrero, Rose Newell


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/aVvYHyXKtRTaFlIq-18Q1H_e52uZVSsoanQIWOHR1YK__4YgslSjDqGROB0MIMtR.PMyxzo01jAP6fgSu?startTime=1762437878000
Passcode: FqUr4&%S

## Scribe

Eloisa Guerrero

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - [Updated IE policy](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/ie-policy.md) (please read!)
   [[changes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/pull/114/files)

     - Tzviya: Change includes clarifications on IE expected to follow the same rules of participation as regular members and chairs will periodically review participation of invited experts. After TPAC chairs will review the list of invited experts.

   - New time for [Sustainability](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/f7fcc7e0-49fc-4636-bd06-9f31babc0352/) breakout (Wed)

     - Tzviya: Look at calendar – [w3.org](http://w3.org) has a [calendar](https://www.w3.org/users/myprofile/calendar/) in your accounts page that you can subscribe to in your own personal calendar.

   - Definition of [Sustainability](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/191#issuecomment-3484977531) for Intro

     - Tim: We’ve had a discussion around clearer definitions of sustainability in the guidelines. Drafting that up to include as part of the next iteration.

   - Susannah’s [proposal for Infra](https://docs.google.com/document/d/163KeoBPOi-i5v4aTyEl7y8vKXnD-7O6qZ1yboqm28FQ/edit?usp=sharing) ([#190](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/190))

     - Susannah: If we know what it is to be a sustainable provider then it would be useful for users to select one. It can give users a direction to what to think about. The confusing aspect about this with the audience. Suppose where someone who is using Wix, they have a different set of guidelines compared to an organization with resources to be what it means to be sustainable.Maybe this can be added to additional information. Will discuss any SCs that need to be added as per the discussion.

     - Jen: Something we’ve struggled with at AGWG, smaller organisations don’t have the resources so they leverage Wix or a CMS that they don’t know much about. It’s the implementers that we also want to make sure we‘re speaking to. Should we add another category for implementers and how they should think about infrastructure including browsers, CMS makers, etc. as they think about how to create solutions for small orgs/biz.

     - Alex: We’ve got an open issue for a future feature, something similar to ATAG or UAAG as an advisory guidance for browser vendors, tool makers that is integrated throughout the guidelines as a supplementary.

       - Something we can build upon, but with regards to the table itself, wondering about best placement because we’re currently on the guidance of why you should be doing this and what you should be doing – is this going into that direction? Could go into examples in the additional information, or summary document for web sustainability which is a nice overview of digital sustainability that would give it high visibility which is listed at the introduction of the main specification.

     - Hidde: I like this type of document; it helps us a lot and tells us what we should do, and the documents help people who want to do the right  thing or steer them in the right direction. I encourage having these kinds of documents as supplementary guidance.

     - Tzviya: We talked about putting it in the additional information section in the main document because this SC is going to be the most impactful one in terms of emissions, and etc. We haven’t set up a structure yet for understanding documents like WCAG, and I’m all for setting that up but there’s no way we can do that in time for April. We don’t have the capacity to be an editor for that at the moment. To add to our agenda for next week is to figure out how to make those additional information sections more usable and figure out how to make it more readable and visually readable. I feel strongly about this being in the document or one click away and very obvious about how to use it.

     - Alex: Open to evolving documents as we go. Click to reveal components may not necessarily form a barrier since detail elements in HTML are common but if there are ways we can make it more pronounced and obvious that information is there, I’m open to all ideas and suggestions.

   - [AI](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u6fNw_NHUprUg4cUASxAyyl2YtXAypzepACeBbVQFaI/edit?usp=sharing) - how does this get added? Integrated? Stand-alone section? Stand-alone doc?

     - Ryan: The purpose of this was to put all in one place the guidelines for the sustainability of generative AI on the web – trying to be specific that we’re not taking on all the issues of sustainability of AI because that’s beyond the scope of the web. The conversation is around how to use different generative AI tools in their sites or website creation to an extent. We have some reigning in of the scope to do, as it has evolved, but the big question is if this is a standalone new section? Probably not. Does this get filtered into the appropriate places in the guidelines where it belongs? Makes sense.

       - The basics that are here are important to include somewhere – might fit under hosting, infra, UX, etc. The key task to get something done quickly is to not let the scope attempt to cover the entirety of sustainability of AI – focus on things that really apply to the web.

     - Sid: We now have a single common document and it covers most the things now and hope that others are also able to come up with new aspects which we have not thought of.

     - Hidde: I’m struggling to see the conversations because there’s a lot of them – we all have very strong opinions on AI and we need to make sure we focus on sustainability on the web. Might be relevant to the document I’m working on in the advisory board on the use of LLMs.

     - Tzviya: Agree with Ryan about incorporating this with the rest of the document – if that is our approach, the first step is to clean it up and get opinions out and stick to SC and guidelines. I am trying to get the editorialising out, we need to remove repetitions from other SC. I, Rose, Alex, and anyone else can work together. One idea is to create a standalone document to update this easily, but I personally don’t like this idea.

     - Alex: Whether we have it as a standalone chapter or integrated within the sort of existing sections – in TPAC, we will be chatting with the WebML working group and getting clarification from them on what we’ve been producing with regards to AI so hopefully that will elicit feedback from their perspective, and see any potential flaws on what we’ve done so far.

     - Rose: What Susannah has done also shown a general issue with the guidelines that there’s a clear desire within the group to explain where we’re coming from, with this document there is a lot of explaining the basics of AI, but I think this is a perspective thing – most people need that information, but if we delete all these explanations about what a small language model is, that will make it very complex for most people. There is a need for something we can maintain like a wiki that has this explanatory information, but spec-adjacent and not simply pointing to external resources. Something educational. These issues are pioneering/changing, and widely misunderstood. Should we consider this because both these projects reflect that need.

     - Hidde: There’s a lot of misunderstanding about AI, but I think we could point to other documents in our specs that explain these concepts because we can’t be an encyclopedia for technology. It’s hard, I do recognise the desire but it would make the whole guidelines harder to apply if we go into too much detail.

     - Alex: Was going to say the same thing as Hidde; W3C isn’t about defining terms, but it’s about, in our case, advisory guidelines. These are best practices but not definitions of what things are – the charter/group is not about being an encyclopedia. We need to be as loose as possible that we’re encouraging people what to do or how to go about doing things, but in the end it’s up to the individual to do the hard work of trying to implement that. If they don’t understand the technology, whether HTML, CSS, JS, AI, we have to make sure that they understand what it is they’re working with to implement with care.

     - Sid: How can we filter out what we want and what we do not want? For example, auto image generation is unethical and also adds clutter to the web and makes the web unsustainable. How do we maneuver around the different aspects of web sustainability?

     - Tzviya: What’s useful today may not be useful in 6 months. Let’s think about how we might be dating ourselves. One of the things in our charter is to create educational materials, so let’s think about what goes in the main document and what goes in the parallel materials. I was speaking to the chairs of AGWG. When you’re dealing with documents that might be adopted by regulatory bodies, it’s important to make sure your language is crafted and we’re going to talk to them next week at TPAC. We can’t have extremist stuff on there, if we write a definition of small language models in our document and we expect it to be adopted by the European parliament or whatever parliament, then they are also adopting the definition of small language models. Let’s keep the documents as more of guidance and not definitional, which is safer for us.

     - Susannah: This is an opportunity for us to link out the definitions that are formally recognised. Good opportunity to bring in the right official references.

   - **Nov 13** - TPAC, no regular call, **Nov 20** - regular call, **Nov 27** - talk about the Americans (US Thanksgiving)

     - Vote on [alternate meeting time](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/115) proposal

     - Tzviya: [Draft agenda for TPAC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T3kva6HtWibHgP33Rx7CIJ_jjSH0Wqs0u7MEP5riloM/edit?usp=sharing)

       - We will put in time chunks for those of you calling in. Been chatting with Fershad about how to structure the metrics meeting, and so does Alex so it will be up to them.

       - Those of us in Japan may have dinner on Thursday night.

       - I opened an issue in GitHub about the time of this meeting because we know it’s a time challenge for many people. Talking about a meeting once or twice a month at an alternate time in this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/115).

   - **Alex (Reminder):** This is the final stretch for new submissions on the GitHub repo, our deadline is the **15th of this month**. From that point I’ll be working to get as much complete into the spec as I can by our December deadline!

     - Alex: Getting ready for submissions, if there are any bugs or updates or requests or new SC, please get them into the GH repo by that time.

   - **UX**: please, review the GitHub issues in this [**Slack thread**](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C048J3X9CFK/p1761664199710889) and respond with urgency as the deadline for feedback is at the end of the month! ([**UX Review**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20%22UX%20Review%3A%22)). Jen is speaking at a conference this week but will begin finalizing with Rose, Sid, and you? :D

     - Jen: Might need to work on that on Sunday when I arrive in Japan to consolidate by the end of next week.

     - Rose: If anyone can pop in and have time to share your opinion, regardless of background, it would be great to hear from you.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
