# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-11-13 (TPAC)

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Eloisa Guerrero, Kazuhito Kidachi, Sarven Capadisli, Fershad Irani, Hidde de Vries, Jen Strickland, Wendy Reid, Maryam al-Jabir, Jeffrey Yasskin, Susannah Hill, Frederic Wang, Manu Sporny, Wolfgang Schildbach, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Shinobu Ura, Morgan Murrah, Kenneth Franqueiro 

## Agenda + Notes

1. **9:00 - 9:15:** Intros, Update on WSG - display, satellite docs

2. **9:15 - 10:30:** Measurement (current state, improvement) - what role will metrics play in WSG? impact API, all hands of deck for any metrics

   - [Metrics spreadsheet (for reference)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hqzz3SmGbU23vwen-Ugcxf3_iYxEDVW-Lu3Uxw_z0TU/edit?usp=sharing)

   - Alex: Nothing has been merged in the last week; everything I’ve got is in process at the moment.

   - Tzviya: 3-minute overview for those who are new:

     - Modelled after WCAG Guidelines/Specs, we don’t have the same model as POUR, but modelled after role-based (developer, design, etc.)

     - Biggest issue for agenda today is about metrics -- how to best integrate into the document.

     - Working with Ken to incorporate some tagging (Alex has incorporated labels) to show all those relevant to specific topics, e.g. privacy, AI, etc. right now everything is hard to find so Alex is helping to make it as obvious as possible.

   - Alex: Can show a preview of potential remedy to what Ken mentioned with current issues of the existing system.

     - (Shows preview of WSG)

       - Previously we had a multi-page system and the problem with it is you need to go on full-page mode to uncover the filters.

         - Got rid of multi-page.

         - Re-engineered filter system.

         - Polished flow and create system at the top whether you’re working on mobile/desktop, it will appear with W3C spec style. Standard layout: TOC, Filters will provide all current filters available (e.g. added “AI” filter and existing content relevant to it). Option to reset at the base or refresh/reload the page.

         - Adjusts TOC based on filters that are turned on.

   - Mike: Can we jump to an impact API piece which is more relevant to this meeting.

   - Fershad: Is there a PR for these changes?

     - Alex: No PR yet.

   - Tzviya: Lots of discussions about metrics, Alex has prepared the impact API and Fershad has many questions.

   - Alex: (shares screen of WSG) Impact API was conceived because metrics change often and much faster and as new models and data become available, we need to update the specs which may have a slower release cycle. If we had numbers coming separately from a separate source and kept in sync with the specs, might be a better way of doing things. Impact API is JS embedded in specs and in each SC there’s a script that calls a JSON API to tell what the score is and works out which bucket it belongs in depending on the labelling system, then presented to the user.

     - Metrics TF in this JSON file can come up with a labelling system, can have a maximum threshold, add as many labels as they want, keep things in sync, show final scores against each individual SC-- provides more synchronicity for future releases so users get most current/updated versions regardless of whatever document release they have. Good reference model to work on which the Metrics TF can have this API to come up with metric scores and fed into that document.

     - Provided a place where URL can input scores to offer a third-party link to describe how we came up with these scores; how we calculated/measured for those who want to go into further detail to understand how to test that result or work out why we came to that measurement.

     - (shows code of WSG on screen) There’s a JS script at the top of the HTML. In each SC, the script tag is what those developing the specs should be aware of -- has a call to the API and the numbers refer to the guideline and the SC. As low maintenance as possible. When implemented, found within all SC of the document. If the SC is updated, these will also be updated with it.

     - Within the actual JSON file, the URL can be kept current to show how we came up with the numbers, contains labels, descriptions, minimum and maximum thresholds and which bucket these scores are from. Some have more than one SC and can be attributed a score. If it’s 0, it won’t show up in the specs, if it has a score, it will show in the specs.

   - Mike: If there’s no measurability/score, it’s a zero.

     - Alex: It might not be ready or not available. Even if there’s no data at that point in time, just have it in case it gets updated.

   - Jeffrey: Suggestion for the API -- use names instead of numbers for IDs (strings not integers)

   - Sarven: Use a URI instead of a name so you don’t even need a script block. If measurement is something anyone can directly link to, give it a URI as a global identifier and isn’t limited to this app but anything that links to the metric.

   - Jeffrey: String ID can work as a URI. We have IDs for each section in WCAG.

   - Ken: There’s a short name field in JSON, could that be used for the URL?

   - Hidde: In WCAG, there are these IDs, but there are problems keeping them in English and other languages. Translations to different versions of WCAG.

   - Fershad: Alex said score and Mike asked about measurability, and we also have metrics. We need to understand what Alex means by saying “score” -- it is not a measurement/not a metric per se but if you look at the metrics spreadsheet above, we have impact for each guideline. Currently not supported by data, these are mostly “feelings”. The current document has four environmental metrics linked to GRI, throughout August to Sept in Metrics TF, we decided to move away from those and shift towards impact based on People, Planet, Prosperity. Planetary based on old GRI stuff, People and Prosperity we have to work through.

   - Jeffrey: Great to provide intuition-based impact statements, it’s important to explain thinking of each one.

     - Fershad: We have a lot of guidelines and more SC, but there’s a need to explain why to integrate sustainability at every stage, etc.

   - Hidde: We expect them to change over time.

   - Fershad: Sustainable Web Design as a model for estimating carbon emissions-- opinions change and new data, as we measure more of this stuff, especially for the Planetary perspective it is easy to change. Prosperity might be glacial in terms of changes, but Planetary changes more rapidly.

   - Tzviya: Fershad and I have talked about this and our goal today is to figure out how to figure out which SC can be measured and what metrics to use. Are we going to align completely on models, how to indicate these in our guidelines.

   - Fershad: The important thing is that some of these things are measurable. But most of them are difficult to measure. We need to reach a consensus-- are we cool with putting up with these things that we plan to work towards measuring them to further refine our thinking. We can’t put a number to some of these things, and need to be okay with that and be able to communicate it to the broader W3C and developer community.

   - Jeffrey: I think that’s (what Fershad said is) the right decision. I’ve seen organisations that can only recommend measurable things but gives them giant blind spots, some of the impact ratings of this document need a rationale.

   - Fershad: If we have something that has a high impact on PPP, but is not yet measurable, is it okay?

     - Jeffrey: As long as you are able to say why it’s high without being measurable, it’s okay.

       - WCAG don’t have measurements for most of their ratings, they may feel like something is “more important” for accessibility…

       - Don’t need to be as mature as WCAG when you publish.

     - Sarven: Agree with Jeffrey. Some things may be undetectable at the moment but need to be flagged.

   - Fershad: Some of these guidelines/SC are long-game things. There are things in there that include best practice. Impact may be high, but may be higher in 4, 5, 6 years into the future. How do we put them into “high”, “medium”, “low” buckets.

   - Mike: Need a timeframe for which these considerations.

   - Hidde: One thing that might happen with the buckets, in WCAG they’ve been used by regulators to the point they’ve picked specific buckets to be required and others not required, and that might happen to our classification as well.

   - Jen: Had an idea, Mike/Fershad were speaking of timeframe, I imagine a table when creating a product roadmap and showing what is mid- or long-term and show our guidelines outside of the group to create a knowledge base or a table to say if you do these guidelines right away, these will show your impact right away. What Mike said, not everything that matters can be measured. Could we pioneer how we talk about things that do matter and can be measured in an automated form. In our sustainability efforts, we can see how dire things are for the future. We need the web to work for everyone.

   - Tzviya: We’re not ever going to be able to get people to disclose about water, but still one of the most important things, but it’s obviously crucial, we’re not going to prioritise like WCAG AA, AAA, we don’t want to tell people to prioritise what SC is more important than the other.

   - Mike: Gives us opportunity to take our draft/example of the weighings in the JSON file and get orgs to create their own interpretations for their own purposes. Can champion their own priorities. There may be some SC/guidelines that are more relevant or have higher impact that is appropriate for the scale of the organisation it is working for.

   - Tzviya: We need to clarify in our documentation how we are measuring/not measuring. Do we do this every SC, or paragraph/section level, or in our lengthy intro?

   - Fershad: How we talked about it in the Metrics TF -- start with guideline level and come up with low, medium, high score to show their score in WSG. If we get rechartered we can dig into SC-level and ind’l SC-level to have its own high, medium, low impact.

   - Mike: Can we leave the text/description of that in the JSON so it stays within that file?

   - Jeffrey: Nervous about JSON file separate from spec and gets updated automatically if you’re publishing this as a note/statement. If W3C is asked to vote on publishing this as a statement or rec, important chunks on why we evaluated things this way and not updated after the fact.. It is risky.

   - Alex: The actual documentation on how we came to those calculations are in the JSON file -- the URL that can be declared and linked within the introduction of the measurability part and will be an anchor reference against each of those scores. The Measurability TF can go into that nuanced detail and keep that up to date separate from specs as the JSON file gets updated and provide that level of detail for those interested to go into how those calculations were drawn. We know realistically speaking that many people will want to look at specs purely for guidelines/SC, not necessarily in the math. Labelling systems like high medium low are easy instead of going through detailed math-- is this going to affect me or not? Something straightforward. Having it separate from specs, models will be updated/available and science on sustainability rapidly changes, if we become a statement we can have that option to change how calculations are drawn and keep up with the JSON and not impact the specs to a detrimental degree.

   - Tzviya: Agree w/ Alex/Jeffrey and we’re talking about people-related issues. We have policies about sustainability as part of the organisation-- that is fairly straightforward to define. Yes/No. For those more math related/calculation, I think we can write along the lines of we will point to any calculator that is outside of this document, the math is constantly evolving and we can decide if we point to a static page but we’re not going to have the math. Can be part of the document/not part of the document -- this group's decision is to point to X, and it’s stable but math can evolve.

   - Hidde: In WCAG we have an evolving science problem too but can’t really update. Regulations refer to WCAG, and that’s a problem with conditions to tell people to follow standards then you can’t change the standard -- can’t have it be a moving target.

   - Jeffrey: You can take your current workflow with JSON file and make it part of the specs process and when ready to do a version of the standard, freeze the values, copy into the HTML, can be copied in or a [normative reference](https://www.w3.org/guide/process/tilt/normative-references.html). Can shift in and out of the document later but for now don’t need to make a decision.

   - Fershad: To build on discussion, metrics going forward -- a lot of writing of explanations on why we got to high, medium, or low, it’s also important for the items that are measurable possibly for every single guideline, we point to one or more actual metrics. Tell people they might have their own way of calculating themselves instead of recommending specific calculators. Each calculator has different levels of outputs. For these guidelines, consider energy use and folks can get information from that data centre and rely on this tool/calculator and for People/Prosperity, the guideline can be about increasing salaries, for example. Going back to wording: impact, metrics, which prompt people to measurability.

   - Mike: Ensuring that telling people this is a choice for them.

   - Fershad: We have that measurability page which is an explainer for each SC/guideline and their impact. Good place to put it in.

     - We can show impact for PPP -- high, medium, low; Metrics -- explanation; Resources available (or too many)

   - Alex: The measurability related to impact API hasn’t been created yet. Haven’t finished with data points/how to define scores yet. It’s on the to-do list.

   - Mike: We won’t put a link to something that doesn’t exist?

   - Alex: Yes.

   - Mike: The HTML document you’re building, there’s more information in the HTML than the text itself because there’s encoding/semantics in that document and not sure whether the standard is the text or the document?

     - There’s the text and semantics in the document that is greater than the text itself-- we’re embedding more information in HTML that’s not exposed to the specs. We’re going to have different results.

     - Tzviya: I don’t think we need to worry about that.

   - Jeffrey: I think it’s an accessibility problem if all the information isn’t available in the document’s text, but if the behaviour of the document is to be able to navigate it -- that’s not part of the standard but is important to have so doc is usable.

   - Tzviya: Talked to AGWG chairs -- consider who our principal audience is? Developers or regulators? Can’t target them at the same time because they have different priorities. It’s important to talk about this.

   - Jen: Anything we add into the doc like that should be progressive enhancement and none of it critical. Everything we create should be plain text, meaning prioritise order of things that it would work. Semantics of it captured in rich text would add on to that, and then the scripting would add on to that. It should be meaningfully usable in plain text. Keep it simple.

   - Sarven: Human-visible goes a long way. Can still have machine readability to it, but hit the accessibility problem and that also leaves room for reuse without depending on JavaScript. At the moment, the information hidden in the markup (`data-` stuff) is only usable by the application in this document.

   - Jen: We’re starting to lose some data, e.g. not seeing things due to JS for those who may not have access to it, so just want to highlight this.

   - Hidde: Dev vs. regulatory audience -- not just about those roles but being abstract vs concrete. Abstract works for regulators and longevity of the document, but people will complain if devs want to use it because it’s too abstract and they need it to be more concrete.

     - Explanation can happen afterwards, not necessarily by this group. People who go out and explain this outside this group.

   - Jeffrey: Wanted to point to WCAG Techniques site that may be a good strategy esp for measurement tools where it can’t be normative but can have a parallel how-to accomplish this type of site.

   - Hidde: There’s a meeting about that right now, and everything they want to change is not as flexible as us, and they need more time to be able to update it.

   - Jen: We’re more flexible right now but we do need to think 2-3 years down the road.

   - Ken: how advanced is too advanced? When does this stop being a document and start being a web app?

   - Mike: couldn’t we just take the JSON and build a static HTML page out of it?

   - Tzviya: Alex, Fershad… how are those metrics meetings going?

   - Fershad: We found today a lot more writing is required. What sort of timeline are you thinking of?

   - Alex: next quarterly release will be 15 December. I hope to push out a lot of our new stuff.

   - Tzviya: I’m thinking 1-3 sentences per guideline… Do we think that’s doable if we divide it up?

   - Mike: We can use AI to generate and then spend time editing and critiquing.

   - Tzviya: I don't think it would help us, too much nuanced information.

   - Fershad: I think Alex has a lot on his plate. I can take a crack at writing 1-2 sentences for all 92 and share it with the group. We still have the whole People & Prosperity section. So low/medium/high before 15 December, then review sentences afterwards.

   - Jeffrey: Some of the success criteria say human testable, others say machine testable. I think many aren’t, they don’t have a test written….is that on the agenda for today?

   - Alex: It came forth on the creation of the STAR document, was to come up with an idea of particular techniques. It was a first attempt, we are going to look at addressing that document when time allows, it’s on our to do list

   - Jeffrey: I think it may be better to take out the labels until we can test them.

   - Fershad: agreed, I also find it distracting currently. Maybe this is something we can write up when we write up the metrics.

   - Jen: Here’s a quick sketch of the table I previously mentioned with the timeframe and testable qualities.\
     ![screenshot of a table for Impact Roadmap of WSG, with a first column that has Term, Machine testable, and Human testable, then three additional columns for Near, Mid, and Long. In the cells for those columns are a sampling of some of the WSG that fit the meeting of those column and row headings]

 Impact Roadmap of WSG
 | Term      | Near | Mid | Long |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Machine Testable    | * 3.7 Ensure code follows good semantic practices * 3.11 3.11 Structure metadata for machine readability         | ||
| Human Testable | | 2.28 Verify that real-world users can successfully use your work ||

   - Mike: this is also not solved by WCAG, automated testing rules exist but outside the main document.

   - Hidde: see also ACT Rules Task Force, they’re standardizing.

   - Sarvan: Maybe good to decide the audience for the document, e.g. this is for a tester, this is for an implementer, this is for a policy maker. Consider adding the target audiences.

   - Tzviya: We removed some information, including this kind of information, from the intro of the document, there was too much information. Is there something else we’d want to have available?

   - Jeffrey: don’t think these are a bad visual to have eventually, just not when they’re wrong / unfinished.

   - Mike: in WCAG the ARRM task force has been taking them apart and been doing role based interpretation.

   - Tzviya: Break time, we’ll be back at **10:50 Japan time**

3. **10:30 - 11:00:** STRETCH, break


4. **11:00 - 11:30:** AI and Sustainability - stand-alone or integrated? Living or part of the Statement?

   - Tzviya: We're not going to pick apart the content of the document. Editorially we’re closing this for now.

   - Alex: We're considering whether to have a dedicated section for AI in addition to the current sections in WSG. One of the reasons being that people will likely look for this material. People may be looking specifically for ways to make AI usage more sustainable, and it may also be easier for us to maintain. On the other hand, as AI covers so much of the industry, it probably relates to all sections, so we could also go with using an “AI” tag and let people filter for that. This way, as it is not separate, it would also be harder to dismiss, it would be integral to the whole document.

   - Mike: With the filters you’ve shown earlier, Mike, it will be much easier to get a snapshot of the AI specific criteria.

   - Tzviya: I agree, there are a handful that are very AI specific, like using a small LLM. The majority probably work best within the other sections.

   - Fershad: I want us to be careful adding more guidelines to an already long document. We can identify existing guidelines and SCs that have some AI overlap, then use the tagging system to surface that. It came up on Monday at the WebML WG, how fast it changes, so probably don’t want to be too specific.

   - Hidde: +1 to integrating, and +1 about not being too specific because things change too quickly

   - JenStrickland: in AGWG they created different categories, some things are exploratory, developing etc, I wonder if we can use something like that
   - Hidde: The AGWG categories are about how far along we are with developing/writing the content, not where the tech is

   - Jeffrey: It seems like these are techniques for accomplishing guidelines with AI, they may belong in the Techniques sections, maybe they don’t even need to be guidelines themselves.

   - Jen: didn’t mean to suggest we need to do it like AGWG does, could use a slightly different approach. There is guidance we can provide.

   - Tzviya: I’m reluctant to have a category ‘emerging tech’ or to categorise something as separate in any way, as it would be dated immediately, and if it’s in a separate category we risk people thinking they don’t need to do it yet. Re Jeffrey’s suggestion that this may be a technique…we did talk about this for a long time before, but maybe for this can reconsider. Feedback from most people who see this doc for the first time is ‘where do you talk about AI’, so we need to mention it somewhere.

   - Alex: We have various guidelines about having business continuity, and recovery, we have quite a few things that are forward looking and being considered and not about what’s happening right now. Having something explicitly or not so explicitly about future things to be considerate about sustainability.

   - Jeffrey: a kwh used by AI is not different from a kwh used by something else, people who treat AI as more unsustainable than other unsustainable things are just wrong.

   - Jen: would like to identify the kind of proposals we have right now. I agree with what Jeffrey said…we have some guidelines on using emerging technologies that already aren’t specific, I think that’s good. That we have already referenced how to approach AI – and other sorts of emerging tech – and that incorporates everything in the AI doc. In our next publication we could mention why we aren’t specific about AI, and how to consider AI from the WSG POV.. I’m going to try to talk to Aki of ECMA at lunch, at the Human Rights & Standards breakout yesterday, about how other SDOs do this.

   - Tzviya: I would recommend we add a sentence or two in the introduction about emerging technologies, probably have the word AI in there, so that if somebody searches for the word they would find something.

   - Mike: re Jeffrey’s point that AI CPU cycles aren't different from other CPU cycles… the type of acceleration AI demands, how rapid it is, it is worth calling it out and seeing it separately.

   - Susannah: I don’t think we can complete the guidelines without pieces of it mentioning AI specifically, apart from any philosophy on how evergreen / fast changing AI… There are pieces of it that explicitly need to be called out in various parts, like when we talk about it being deceitful to the user, e.g. whether a convo is happening with a person or user. There are various parts where it makes sense to actually call those kinds of things out and in those places we can mention AI. 

   - Alex: a kwh is a kwh, but there’s lots of factors to take into account, there are lots of emissions produced from AI, there are also other emissions and waste materials. We need to take these things into best practices.

   - Fershad: all the things we talk about re AI accelerating many things, are already covered by parts of our guidelines, in different places. If we call out AI as a specific tech stack, we need to also call out @@@ stack, @@@ stack, LAMP stack. I think we already cover a lot of things you should think about.

   - Ines: since we had discussions in the UX TF…from a people perspective, we were not discussing only the planet part and resources part, we also discussed people. But agree with Fershad, everything is covered. All of these ways AI is being added to the web is basically already covered. Also depends who we are writing for.

   - Hidde: +1 fershad, ines. We really need to focus on Web and Sustainability. Whether a bot is real is important, but it’s not about sustainability.

   - Tzviya: I think I’m hearing AI is covered sufficiently in the document, but we want to mention AI in the intro, just so that people who search for it find it in the document, we will consider adding it into some kind of techniques document. I think this merits another careful review to double check.

5. **11:30 - 12:00:** Next steps, Outreach (education materials, tooling, community, W3C collab, policy)

   - Mike: Brief discussion on outreach we’re currently doing to get a sense where to go with educational materials. What is our current status?

   - Tzviya: A bit all over the place. Part of our charter is educational materials. Most people don’t know that digital sustainability exists. There is a lot of potential -- tooling (if people can click a button and how they can apply the guidelines), integration with existing tools like Lighthouse (Fershad with GSF, Tim).

   - Mike: Scope of this discussion-- we are not responsible for educating the world of digital sustainability and its impact on the web, we’re focused on standards, we need to work with organisations in terms of communication within W3C and scope of web standards.

   - Hidde: In accessibility, there’s a lot of educational documentation with the W3C logo on the top that makes it look authoritative, I think it’s useful to have that logo on our materials, and regulators like things like that to exist at W3C specifically so that it can be neutral and have extensive review.

   - Fershad: Selling sustainability is tough. Tim can speak to this but people don’t go to agencies to make their websites sustainable. From a W3C perspective, how do we get sustainability to those WGs, conversations, documents of having a guideline in and of itself. Adoption of sustainability is something that will become important.

   - Tzviya: One of the things I’ve been working on is drafting a sustainability horizontal review document (self-review) -- not documented yet but once we have WSG finalised, will probably need Jeffrey to help. The idea is if we had an a11y review, why wouldn’t we have a sustainability review? It needs to be short and simple. Are you doing something that will trigger xyz, relatively short questions that people can answer.

   - Pierre-Antoine: People don’t go to agencies for sustainability, they go for fast and accessible websites. The question is, how do we get sustainability part of those requests as well. A sustainability horizontal review is a great way to get there.

   - Jen: One of the ways we get sustainability on the same level of being customer-requested is through efforts of all of us to get it out there and make it visible. A number of us are public speakers, writers and one of the things I’ve wanted to do with SWING (our group) is a media plan -- we have topics that we know we want to promote and have people who are speaking and coordinate our efforts through blog posts, speaking events and make sure we get the same messages out there. Coordinate with people like Fershad with Green Web, GSF people, and all these groups. At the end of the day, we’re all just trying to make the planet better so we can show more cooperative networking efforts. So we don’t have the same IP battle that happens with the big corporations.

   - Alex: One of the things that will probably help us sooner is going to be legislation -- legislation is changing rapidly around the world for sustainability and that is something reflected from the accessibility sphere. One of the things we know with accessibility is that over the decades it has been a struggle to get people to conform to accessibility -- vast majority of the web is still inaccessible and comes down to people being public, showcasing accessibility for things to change for the better. From this friction, may end up being the same with sustainability. Governments are moving quickly with sustainability, producing similar reporting policies on a global scale, others moving more quickly than others, but gov’t and gov’t department have been open and willing to engage with our group in noticing the work we’ve been doing -- there’s potential to see a replication of the effect that WCAG had on a regulatory standpoint to make that same effect to sustainability. We’ve done the hard work producing a standard that could be used to say that this is a minimum acceptable baseline. Could be helpful for gov’t to use as part of the legislative process. Legislation will play a key role in the future to give people the nudge in the right direction.

   - Fershad: I like the idea of horizontal review checklist, but I want to raise this question in the same way brought up in the ethics breakout session yesterday -- is horizontal review too late? To be thinking about this? Same with accessibility. If you’ve read the whole spec, and someone says it isn’t sustainable, where does that leave us? Sync up with other groups.

   - Manu: I think the Verifyable Credentials WG is great to test the horizontal review. I was looking at the guiding principles that the document is based on -- statement on open resiliency and I wonder if market competition comes into the document in any way. When I searched for market competition I didn’t find anything like that in there and we’re looking at long-term sustainability on the web. There are things in W3C happening that are choking / gaming the process in a way that’s harmful for the web. Does market competition and market sustainability fit into this group? I’d like to reference Alex Russell, he has done a series of blog posts around [browser choices matter](https://infrequently.org/series/browser-choice-must-matter/) and [Apple’s assault on standards](https://infrequently.org/2025/09/apples-crimes-against-the-internet-community/). He clearly articulates the challenges that the web payments working group, the federated identity, etc. there is a pattern of behaviour using W3C as a shield to limit the growth of the web. Don’t know if that fits in sustainability. Have you all considered this? Is this the right venue for discussion, and if not, where does it belong?

   - Hidde: I agree with Alex that regulation will help a lot and it is also complicated, at the Dutch government there are people who are interested. At the W3C Advisory Board we’re looking at engaging better with regulators and part of that work can be understanding better to make this part of regulation. There are different levels but I think it will help a lot to get regulation/legislation, and we’ve seen that from accessibility.

   - Jen: In APA (Accessible Platform Architecture) we suggest groups come to us in the beginning not during horizontal review. We had a collaboration cycle where there was a touchbase with dev, design, research, etc. but I think adding sustainability into that thing for CSS to think about in the outset of creating things. There might be a document that can be created for groups to provide others getting started on the path to think about.

   - Mike: Not that we can’t include market competition, but when this begins to have regulation behind it we don’t want to have big players to come in and shift the responsibilities and gaming the system. AI will play a huge role in trying to influence this. There are places where we can see where better incentives are provided.

   - Tim: The growth or whatever sustainable growth means-- we’ve passed many monetary boundaries saying we’re restricting innovation, but can we do that in a more responsible way? It's a longer conversation and WSG should help people do better and not more.

   - Jeffrey: There are 2 kinds of guidelines missing from the document. 1: If one tech area is more sustainable than another, perhaps because it pays more attention to sustainability, but processes by which that tech is developed is vulnerable to being slowed down/sabotaged, that counts as a sustainability problem. The system you’re in pushes you to a less sustainable approach because of costs of developing more sustainable technology. 2: The other business model related thing is the way that AI is developed involves crawling all the websites, in order for AI to improve, there have to be more websites. But its output is also undermining the creation and support of those websites. It’s not a sustainable process, it’s undermining its own support. I didn’t see that direction when I searched for it in the documents.

   - Mike: Didn’t get much further on outreach.

   - Tzviya: We should be careful with using the word sustainability. Using the term market sustainability -- we touch on economics, WSG is based on an economic principle but we don’t touch on market sustainability. I don’t think we can talk about this in maintaining a business perspective, should be in an environment perspective. We need to walk that delicate balance.

   - Sarven: There’s a whole section on business strategy but it’s more inward looking at the W3C in terms of unnecessary competition and distinction to be made between environment impact and the market, but there are things happening under these categories that can be used as examples.

   - Manu: I think this is about empowering individuals to have control over their lives online and there are some things in W3C that don't allow that. We’re pushing off the web onto a native app, for example. Those harms lead the individual to less choices where they’re forced to choose things that may not be in their best interest. It’s more of the individuals themselves and having the power taken away from them.

   - Jen: Wanted to address the line of sustainable and responsible -- the web is not as harmful as other things, the web is inherently harming the planet, every device we create and every system that we create beyond AI and when they don’t use sustainable practices and they end up in landfills, all of the resources that go into these, and people who are exploited, the social impact also of how we make these things that are addictive and harm people via cyberbullying, for example. Each of us individuals has a responsibility but we have less impact on how to improve and it’s coming together as people that we have the opportunity to make an impact. As organisations of people make policy or product decisions, as we do with standards we need to give them what they need to make better regulations and legislation and behaviour and one of the problems we have with technology is that it advances at a rapid pace and regulation is so much slower. Many of the regulators have been bought and paid for and regulations are even slower. The technology was made in such an irresponsible way.

6. **12:00 - 12:30:** Getting WSG into testing tools, such as Lighthouse (Fershad) (Tim on Ecograder, apis)

   - Tim: We built Ecograder in 2013, its idea was to help people understand and tooling/retooling -- hopefully to get to the place where it was a robust platform to make their websites more sustainable. We wanted to make it a WSG platform as a longer-term goal for us and we’re developing it in tandem. The scoring is something we made up on our own, our own algorithms because there was nothing else to turn to so we hope that Metrics TF and WSG can help and make it more front and centre so that when they use Ecograder it is hopefully looked at as a WSG tool.

   - Fershad: From a tooling perspective, and there is a Lighthouse issue years ago, the biggest pushback is the reliance on models for the estimation that goes on and part of that relates to how people communicate on what their carbon impact is because that is an estimate-- the pushback to get this into tooling is largely on the use of models on estimating the carbon impact. There’s a lot of work going into SCI for web which is Software Carbon Intensity (SCI) for web that is a specification that Green Software Foundation (GSF) is working on. Hopefully there will be something Q1 next year, Alex may have more info on that. There are other people working on tooling around energy on device side, on specific platforms, which requires setup, implementation, and hard to put it into someone’s hands as a solution. We know very little about backend information without needing to understand the technology that certain providers are using in order to make these services appear.

   - Mike: Tooling from the accessibility world carries over, there are challenges with it and one of the issues is people assume that this is a representation of the truth, chasing the numbers, so we need to avoid that in any of the tooling out there. Some tools are better or worse in the accessibility area, and Microsoft’s accessibility tools go beyond the score, provides guidance on manual testing and is a really useful comprehensive tool that is also open source and widely used but the effective a11y tools are largely training wheels for people to learn what the standards mean.

   - Alex: As far as tooling goes, in a11y there is no silver bullet in tooling. Nothing covers everything. Tooling can be made in terms of sustainability and there will be things that can be measured, there are variables or factors that we just don’t have the data on. It’s a lot more opaque rather than transparent. There’s not enough data to leverage upon in order to build a successful backlog of information to be able to say “these tools can be built in this way” and so we can provide easy answers. It’s going to be a learning process for everyone.

   - (Everyone likes to read standards documents.)

   - Hidde: Tools are a blessing and a curse. It’s great they can show people some first steps, even though we know the nuance is that ‘100% perfect’ sort of results are meaningless to those familiar with the nuance. We need to teach folks the nuance after they’ve done the first steps, there’s a whole document to help and guide you on what to do. The most frequently asked question to me is if there is any way to automate or install a tool to do this. We should send resources and teach people on how to do more in this area.

   - Jen: In my talks about fighting climate change and web accessibility and performance -- we have tooling for those things but if we were to say to people to use those tools as a basis for sustainability, what is missing that we could get to with all the roadblocks to the data that Fershad previously mentioned. Can we just say to use a11y and web performance tools can get you there most of the way?

   - Tzviya: I’d like us to think about how to make people aware of the tooling. Many people don’t know of the existence of these things. We’d like to also get to is for browsers to get them to integrate some of these tools.

   - Alex: Re: tooling, key things are related to models for sustainability such as SCI for web, when things like newer models get created and better measurability becomes available then tooling will naturally leverage upon that and become more accurate as a byproduct.

   - Mike: Is it worthwhile mentioning what SCI is?

   - Alex: SCI is the original spec is an ISO standard that effectively measures or comes up with measuring the eco-efficiency of software. It’s relatively successful and has good adoption rates and has thought about what applications are out there. SCI for web is to look at websites with apps because they are fairly different from traditional applications and we’re bubbling away at how they would be defined and how we come up with ways of measuring them. We’re in the process of coming up with document specifications and working out how to go about it. Once we’ve got a proposal together and published, it should come up with a new way of being able to measure things which is potentially going to be a refreshing way of going about sustainable web design models. The way we’re looking at things, there are many things to consider. Going by bandwidth methodology is not the most comprehensive way of going about doing it. It’s more about expanding how a website app can be measured and come up with more comprehensive than others before.

   - Fershad: To Jen’s point, what we uncovered from measurement/metrics of what we’re going to do with the right tools that they might want to measure -- it won’t be easy, won’t be one tool. You might pull data points from different tools. Even SCI for web which I believe are trying to cover full stack and front end, you’ll still need to pull data points from other sources. It’s trying to make this process easier.

   - Tzviya: Yesterday Lola spoke about multiple steps of accessibility API mappings and assistive technology but you have ARIA, accessibility tree, etc. APIs feed into the AT. Maybe talk to her about her multi-pronged testing approach and how we can build something similar.

   - Alex: I’m working on the side in addition to my stuff with GSF -- a lot of different factors -- building a cascading map of all the things you need to take into account from creation to consumption -- a basic map of those different data points that will be turned into a web app you can track that data across that could be integrated into a custom web app in the future.

   - [Break for lunch]

7. Issues to discuss if we have extra time: did not discuss

   - **Consolidation:** <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/64>

   - **Definition:** <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/191>

Minutes with Web Perf <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T3kva6HtWibHgP33Rx7CIJ_jjSH0Wqs0u7MEP5riloM/edit?usp=sharing>

Minutes with AGWG <https://www.w3.org/2025/11/13-ag-minutes.html>&#x20;
