# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-10-23

**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Jen Strickland, Sid Waggle, Crystal Preston-Watson, Sarah Zama, Ryan Sholin, Susannah Hill, Rose Newell, Emma Horrell


## Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

TBD


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) and [Incident Resolution](https://www.w3.org/guide/process/coc-incident-resolution-ombuds.html)

   - Quick reminder to read through. In case on any issues or questions, please reach out to chairs or Tzviya.

   - Jen: Suggest to look at CoC issues raised on [GitHub](https://github.com/w3c/PWETF). Society is changing, and with that how we communicate as well. What happens to person after the accident happens is more important than we think. There is a responsibility we all have to learn on our mistakes and make sure we do not repeat our mistakes.

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Jen commenting on some accessibility issues while navigating our specs

   - Crystal: comment on voice over not pairing well with Chrome in general

3. **Topics of discussion**

   - Horizontal review update:

     - [Previous status link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mDp2Ao_FaurV4GCVkoYFz2NtgYhmeRAjYLKvqMAIEbk/edit?tab=t.0#bookmark=id.wufcur9yztlz)

     - [Mike and Tzviya submitted i18n yesterday](https://github.com/w3c/i18n-request/issues/281)

     - The rest needs to be submitted as a next step

     - Morgan is working on Security and Privacy, Tzviya to check his progress

   - **All updates/new guidelines due by Nov 15**

     - Alex: Please submit your comments ASAP so it can be in by November 15th

     - Groups can keep producing new materials, in terms of gaps and suggestions

   - AI: where does this belong? (See[ #139](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/139) and [#164](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/164), making it findable)

     - Alex: AI opt-in success criteria Sid suggested, Rose has a draft on it, in case of comments or more gaps, please raise an issue

     - Tzviya: AI opt-in might be optimistic, but we should be aware of IETF’s work on <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/aipref/about/>

     - Alex: key is how we word it (AI opt-ins). Some things we suggest are quite optimistic, such as 100% green hosting. When it comes to compliance with specifications, hopefully new scoring helps show a good score without having to comply to everything

     - Susannah: Is there an educational, suggestion option? We should include everything that has an impact, so people can discover new things from the guidelines

     - Alex: Education could be a separate activity from the WSG itself

     - Tzviya: currently it is hard to find AI directly in the guidelines, so we want to address that. Make AI more findable. There are 2 open issues. Guidelines are the base document, we can make more “attachments” but guidelines keep the main source

     - Jen: This was raised previously by UX task force

     - Tzviya: this could come in each TF, and be relevant for each section. Question now is how do we make it more findable

     - Alex: adding AI tag can be added to any success criteria where we have anything that is related to AI. Alex and Rose want to change wording from “emerging technologies” to something more explicit. If people search they can find references easier and faster.

     - Mike: This is such a fast moving thinking so we can add a paragraph that notes that. That we know it and are working on it. Same for VR like AI.

     - Jen: can we provide some guidance on how people think on design and implementation on these technologies other than just adding the note about it. Amazon is an example of company getting rich while exploiting workers using the fact that regulations are not keeping up

     - Tzviya: not keen on disclaimer. Keep emerging technologies and add AI as extra. Figure out how to word it so it is flexible.

     - Rose: Agree with Tzviya. Has client that deals with ADD IT. To get the label has to be in Switzerland. <https://www.swissmadesoftware.org/en/about/plus-AI.html> They have challenge to be inclusive of 3rd parties that are not Swiss. Like the way they are categorising things. I liked how they have operationalised the use of AI. It provides safety net for those companies. Label provides transparency and that would be a good direction for guidelines

     - Alex: want to be considerate on when we talk on AI to “not step on toes” of AI group that

     - Ryan: scope is on top of my mind. SCI for Web of GSF was a productive conversation. Which part of Gen AI is effecting the web. Rather than filtering Gen AI through everything, maybe just make one, standalone guideline that address the use of GenAI on the Web

     - Tzviya suggest to check Atlas browser

     - Susannah: in addition to what Ryan says, it can help us to future proof

     - Tzviya agrees with Ryan and Susannah. Tzviya was asked about the AI and the SWG and it was not easy to answer and find it. If someone wants to apply our guidelines in a specific scenario it is easier to steer them towards specific guideline. So maybe start drafting AI guideline (Susannah and Ryan). Rose also volunteers

     - Mike: AI is posing an economic threat to web as industry. AI is trying to be the source of information, it is all moving quickly and there are some serious challenges. W3C and standardisation will have to do something on the topic

   - TPAC Update: meetings with AGWG, Perf

     - Mike and Tzviya met with chairs of a11y working group

     - Mike: doing intros and frame how we can make agenda, figure out how our communities can have a productive discussion

     - Jen: suggested meeting with APA, connection already established with Matthew

     - We are meeting with Perf group. There is a shell agenda that we will work on. Metrics will be a big point of discussion. Tzviya talked to Tara. Any suggestion what to talk about

     - Jen: if we think strategically on individuals who are physically there, on TPAC, connections with web perf could be crucial, especially with browser vendors.

     - Mike: are there people we should be reaching out? It is critical to have conversations outside working groups 1 on 1. Maybe divide and conquer

     - Jen: I’d love to have a strategy call with those who are attending to plan how we should approach this, tactically. ;)

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. [****Open Issues****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) **(**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198)**)** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)

   - TBD

6. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
