# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025-07-10

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/69

**Attendees:** Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Thorsten Jonas, Jen Strickland, Crystal Preston-Watson, Rose Newell, Hidde de Vries, Anne Faubry, Eloisa Guerrero, Andrew Wright, Nick Lewis


## Recording: https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/DgiosY9Ck7N3KPtcHT7DQZA5SmhyghdH8ij3JGz8Re2uNanudKVcDm6YnWePgUyA.rIIiDv4dyFkLcIQj 
Passcode: 5+r$4YwI


## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
_(All consent to recording)_

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - **Reminder:** WSG [Q2-2025 Release Notes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/releases) have been released! Rundown of new pieces add to spec in last quarter

   - If you would like to see something on the agenda, open an issue, label with agenda+

   - **Editing:** Chairs remind people that in the Slack channels there are bookmarks which is where people are doing the editing. Later in the month we’ll move editing to Github. Tzviya will do a tutorial on how the W3C uses Github. It’s for transparency and concurrency control. The UX copy review is currently using a local Word doc between Jen & Rose, but that will transition very soon.

   - **Agenda:** If you have something you’d like mentioned in a meeting you can post it in Github and label it `agenda+` and it will be added to a meeting agenda (perhaps not the next one, but asap).

   - Light attendance today (2.5 hour meeting next week)

   - **Next Week’s 2.5hr Meeting:**

     - Each group has topics to explore

     - Product: there are 29 SC in the Business Strategy and Product Management section. Maybe there should be 2 sections rather than one.

     - UX might want to coordinate with biz

     - Figure out what the subject of SCs is - a little harder than WCAG because it’s not about individuals

     - We need to figure out what we’re creating - do we spend enough time on exactly what we’re doing, what’s needed. Is there a getting started section? All the roles need to have touch points and connect

3. **Task Force Breakouts**

   - Group Feedback (Blockers & Updates)
   - UX:
     - Discuss the way forward
     - Prep for Friday’s broader UX TF meeting
     - Job roles / tasks (design, dev…) should be filters instead of categories for the specs. It's weird to end with Business and Product Management and it is too narrowing.
     - On the opposite, we miss a "project phases" or workflow filter / chapters. Should it be spec categories or just a filter ?
     - Struggled with queuing with some thinking we were doing conversational queuing and others thinking it was by hand raised order. We need to be clear about what our queuing protocol is so that everyone understands.
   - WebDev: no
   - Hosting:
   - Product/Biz: Consider whether we should flag items that are specific to business strategy vs. product strategy?
   - Measurability: Prioritization exercise and how this can be shared with the whole group next week
4. **Updates Post Breakouts**
   - Metrics
     - Spoke about spreadsheet of various metrics, what we might be able to measure
     - Next steps are to look at ways we prioritize metrics to concentrate on
     - Will update in the sustainability channel and will update the Google doc, too
   - UX
     - Discussion around categorizing by job roles, that it’s a bit narrow for how we do things. So, it’s filters instead of chapters.
     - The order of the specs could be improved, to address the overwhelm. Instead of organizing by the phases which we approach the work.

5. **Next Step:** Tzviya, Ines, Alex, & Tim will work on an agenda for next week, it won’t be very different from these regular meetings.

6. Community + News

   - None

7. [Open Issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) ([Kanban](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198))

   - [**WSG**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg)**:** [#83](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/83) (All)

   - **IG:** None

8. Other discussion/questions
