# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-04-09

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle (Sid), Thorsten Jonas, James Christie, Susannah Hill, Emma Horrell, Crystal Preston-Watson

### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
TBD

### Scribes
James Christie

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - None.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - **All:** Homework progress update (getting ready for TAG)

     - Only one person still needs to do the first pass. Second pass reviews still mostly need to be done. 

     - Christian’s comments via email - not in Github. Tzviya can update on return. 

     - James asked if a person disagrees but the note in GitHub, but if there is agreement just add Agreed to the spreadsheet.

       - And also note agreement in Github.

       - And tag people as appropriate. 

     - Ines yes, there are some question, but keep the in Github to determine which require further discussion

     - Alex: If there is something missing or req clarification, do add a comment in Github.

- **Ask:** Earth Day challenge, quiz, post, etc.: 

  - Looking for something we can share on our own personal Social / LinkedIn etc. 

    - And Community page on W3C, potentially also CAT. 

    - Other ideas mentioned: A wordsearch; “delete a piece of your own dead content”, etc

  - How do we keep it low lift?

  - Goal and audience: what do we want people to do? And who are we targeting?

    - Sid: introduce the concept to people unfamiliar. 

      - Memes can work well for this. 

    - Thorsten: short quotables. E.g. Edinburgh - “saved 20 tons a year by image optimisation” - big idea fits on one image. 

      - Doesn’t require people to interact, but encourages further exploration. 

      - A handful of easy facts that could be shared. 

    - Ines: if your LinkedIn circle is already familiar (because you post a lot) then the impact may be less. 

    - Susannah: look at our personal networks - e.g. I might not have infrastructure people in my followers, but a lot of bloggers. 

      - If all 50 billion blogs did this simple change, then \[a large impact occurs]. 

      - Connect to the news - “evil data centers”. 

      - Simple things - webp, dark backgrounds etc. 

    - Ines: use the angle of “quality of work” - right way of doing things. 

      - Trigger discussions: what was the last website that triggered you and why - (slowness, usability, etc).

  - Showstopper: what does that mean?

    - Def. A post that stops someone scrolling, that stands out. 

    -

  - Misc Ideas:

    - Rose: something fun; tools that make this easy; 

      - Text adventure by Rose - adaptable <https://englishroseberlin.com/the-text-adventure-game-hiring-the-right-english-copywriter-and-translator/> 

      - Fun is good as a counterpoint to all the corporate slop. 

    - Sid: publish a 1-page cheat sheet / checklist (sharable content)

    - Thorsten: I put together some example “facts“ about web sustainability in a postable format with the idea of putting it under the theme „Web Sustainability matters“. Just rough sketched examples to show the idea: <https://jottacloud.com/s/47786447a448db7454485b1990f405e1f80>

      - Rose: and link to specific guidelines - that could be the common thread. 

    - Sid: <https://climateaction.tech/blog/ecoweb-report-2025-benchmarking-digital-sustainability-in-the-climate-sector/> 

    - Sid: share checkpoints & details of what can be achieved. 

  - Idea: sharing a high level vision of Web Sustainability

    - Sid: Is Earth Date potentially a good date for introducing our new definition of Web Sustainability? 

    - The group feels the definition is ready. 

    - Could be visualised e.g. The Pillars; encourage participation and feedback. 

    - Sid Example Infographic from recent talk.

  - Idea: linking Analytics and Impact

    - Mike: If you’ve got analytics data, this is one way to illustrate the impact: <https://mgifford.github.io/daily-dap/docs/reports/daily/2026-04-09/index.html#performance-impact-heading> I didn’t try to measure CO2, but there is a lot you can do if you have the analytics. Here’s a similar version for the Government of Canada: <https://mgifford.github.io/daily-cap/>

    - E.g. Users had to waste 11years of time waiting for site load due to site optimisation. 

    - Rose: these performance gain arguments can be more persuasive / easy to adopt than climate. 

    - Ines: link guideline to a stat, with a performance and/or climate benefit. 

    - Thorston: <https://anythingcounter.com> 

  - Idea: corporate Sustainability Minisites / CSR pages

    - Rose: every Earth Day, corporates release big new splashy sustainability pages (that are unaware of WSG - eg autoplay video).

    - Susannah: what is the “take action” - 

    - Rose : Call out Digital Greenwashing.

      - E.g. encourage people to run their own tests on these sites  

    - Alex: cautionary note - is it better to emphasize positive stories rather than the negative? Especially as the WSG, we aren’t the cops. 

      - Goes against our mission.

      - Negative attention to \[good] causes. 

    - Rose: to avoid it being negative, do this preemptively  - “consider these things now to avoid an unsustainable page”. 

    - James: or identify the most sustainable Earth Day campaigns and call them out for praise. 

    - Ines: or make it anonymous by averaging 20 different examples. (without naming names). 

      - Potentially show a worked example of improvement. 

    - James mentioned: Guerilla Gardening comparison. Ok to point out mistakes. Here are some mistakes and how you would reduce that. A before/after comparison. Whether it is a postcard style or more fully worked through examples. 

    - Rose: Amazon's Sustainability page (given as an example of something to do in our personal channels, not under the flag of WSG). 

      - <https://pagespeed.web.dev/analysis/https-sustainability-aboutamazon-com/f29u8xu5oc?form_factor=mobile>

      - Total size was 21,648 KiB

      - Reduce unused CSS Est savings of 1,038 KiB

      - Improve image delivery Est savings of 13,121 KiB

      - Reduce unused JavaScript Est savings of 1,557 KiB

      - Sid: “Big tech sustainability is not sustainable” 

  - Reality check: do we have time to do any of this, while there are other time-based activities that need to happen?

    - Mike: What is the minimum we can do?

    - Can we use the W3C community blog as a megaphone? 

    - Rose: We can also do these things independently as our own interests. 

  - ACTIONS: 

    - Remember to do homework first before going too deep on any of these ideas. 

- Workshops: early summer?

4. **Community + News**

   - Earth Day:

   - Non-Earth Day: 

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - No.