# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-06-04

**Attendees**:  Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Emma Horrell, Nick Lewis, Siddesh Wadle, Alisa Bonsignore, Morgan Murrah, Susannah Hill, Crystal Preston-Watson, Adam Newman

### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
 https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/zGCbPplDM0EdB79zJVChnnV7lFch9WTESA5Xn5pgKJqHSco1viA4ORHtxk4gm5UQ.qrZnC_k9uD10UdqF?pwd=DIy7mOD5s7gLgVLpQgAAIAAAAFF8sTTI-Io4fu2FNZeBD58huWbkyC-SQGdy-ykFkxQvKZk5I11EGr4KsfkirE_wCjAwMDAwNA 

### Scribes
Sid


### Agenda + Notes
- Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

- **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

  - TBD

- **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

  - [****Review PRs****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls)

    - Alex: We've multiple pull requests with feedback. Most of them were taken on board. Keep the feedback coming. Rose and I are continuing to work on guidelines.

    - Tzviya: There is a lot of discussion on pull requests. It would be great if they get merged by the end of week. Please add your comments or we can talk about them now.

    - Ines: There was a comment about the definition.

    - Alex: It was a minor change. It hasn't been included yet since we are discussing it in meetings. It’s issue no. [326](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/326)

    - Susannah: Rose and Alex did changes to the provider and operation split.

    - Rose: “Include sustainability metrics when selecting and evaluating potential infrastructure, hosting, cloud, platform, externally hosted content, and other digital services.”

      - I’ve realised this aspect is not yet covered. If you advertise with someone who is not green hosted. To ensure that we include externally hosted content to be evaluated the same way.

    - Alex: Deadlines - We have the deadline on 15th but there is a lot of material and the peer reviews have taken. Myself and Rose are working but I don’t know how it will work with respect to deadline wise.

    - Rose: I’m going on a holiday. I need a break as well.

    - Alex: One option is - I’ve got 80% of integrating peer review feedback, a general idea but Rose has not got the opportunity to do a secondary check.

    - Rose: There are a lot of changes during our discussions and there is a dramatic difference.

    - Tzviya: Let’s take the details of deadline offline with the chairs.

  - [****TPAC 2026****](https://www.w3.org/events/tpac/2026/tpac-2026/)**: Dublin - Oct 26-30 (**[****https://github.com/w3c/tpac2026-meetings/****](https://github.com/w3c/tpac2026-meetings/)**)**

    - Tzviya: Here the working and interest groups meet. Last year we met in Japan.

      - When do we meet?

      - Which groups do we want to meet with?

        - Last year we did with performance working groups.

      - Are we going to ask for an extension with the charter?

        - Whether to recharter

        - Working towards extension

      - This is going to be hopefully a delivery point. We want to announce as a rechartering in 3 months or we are rechartering now.

      - WCAG is meeting on Mon/Tue. We could meet for 1 or 2 days on M/Tu or Th/Fr. Wednesday is unconference day. Let Tzviya know your preference.

    - Alex: Is there particular benefit of having one day over another?

    - Tzviya: We don’t yet know except you can look at the GitHub repository where groups are requesting.

    - Ines: We will like to work with performance or accessibility.

    - Rose: Is there a sponsorship?

    - Tzviya: There would be a fund and you can apply

    - Tzviya: We can also see to not conflict with certain groups.

      - <https://github.com/w3c/tpac2026-meetings/issues>

      - We will let them know which days and which chunks of the days are available.

      - We will like to know closer to TPAC how many people would love to attend in October. [it’s not sunshine in Dublin]

      - I will open this issue really soon and you let me know if there is anything.

  - **How to handle** [****Resources****](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/resources.html) **docs (longevity, readability, where should links go)**

    - Alex: Originally we had lot of resources embedded in documents. We know they go out of date and become problematic. The main doc is much safer.

    - What we did was had cross linking. In each SC we have particular references and useful material which link to implementation and tools which might help people with implementation and backing up with evidence and reinforce what we have in each criterion. The problem is maintenance. There are online tools and W3C has an online checker. That’s pretty straight forward. It takes me less than a month to fix things.

    - As far as links. The way I went through it was using “click to reveal” which reduces scrolling. There are still a lot of links in each SC.

      - We have feature requests.

      - We can organize the links to make it easy for people to understand what these things are. Gives a visual breakdown on what they are looking for.

      - It is out in the open to structure it.

    - The supplements are considered separately from specs. All of the supplements we are thinking of keeping in separate repo. Once they have a repo then it is easy to maintain without affecting the main specifications. That’s long term things.

    - What happens when the charter ends and rechartering that would be a discussion.

    - Tzviya: Somebody was offering feedback. He said it’s overwhelming to see resources for each SC to have so many resources, and it’s unclear what all of them are. We need to rethink our approach

      - What current resources do we have?

      - How do we lay out the resources?

      - Is it useful to have a link next to every SC to resources?

      - With respect to SC is not that useful. We can think about it later. Linking to every SC is confusing.

      - Many resources are news articles, so even if we permalink, the story might be dated.

      
    - Sid: Someone might look at resources wanting to know more about specific SC, and someone might know SCs and want resources. We need to consider different perspectives.

    - Morgan: Is it possible to link within detail summary section. You can go to the link and opens the detail section. Is it possible to link headers to minimize the clutter.

    - Alex: It is possible to reduce the clicks.

    - Mike: The proof of the pudding comes from decades people have spent. Having two different audiences would be useful. We are not in position to justify the use of a SC but we are guiding people the best way to implement them.

    - Ines: The whole point of it is that we need to publish the resources at the same time? Or publish them separately from the rest?

    - Tzviya: Feedback I got from one person that it was overwhelming to see so many links and the order. Does it make sense to have resources after every guideline and whether to have them with each SC.

    - Alex: The reason they were broken down by SC we had a lot of cases where we had links they apply to particular SC alone. So when I was curating I looked at each resource on its own and referred to it in multiple places. The same went with standards where we have cross-reference mapping. We could generalise the links but we could lose the nuance of where certain links are more useful with how many references we have. There are ways how they are portrayed at the moment they are mostly listed with what the title is. We can do it via sublists or labels.

    - Rose: Firstly the issue is UX one. People are likely to expect educational. It is managing expectations. Just change it to references or sources so people don’t expect too much. With respect to overlap it makes sense to present resources with a json like structure, eg. filter by SC, etc. The filtering system would work really well.

    - Ines: I agree as well. It is an adoption issue.

  - **What to do about AI (Tzviya)**

    - Tzviya: We had this conversation before. We had several proposals about AI and asked to do something about AI. The question is do we want to have separate sections or have standalone? Heard in GreenIO, you would like to avoid AI use search instead. Conversations like “Did you know when you using CoPilot it has a profound affect on the environment?"

    - Alex: We should not have separate doc because that causes a rift in potential adoption because we got material on WSG. If we start a separate doc then we end up with conformity. It’s better not to fragment people's attention and priorities. I would prefer integrating. We already have so many ideas but due to peer reviews we did a content freeze as of now. It will be definitely integrated in one way or another.

    - Susannah: First step would be organizing principle what we are going to say about AI. “Using AI as a tool to develop website” or “Adding AI apps as a third party resource.”. There are a hundred different things. It would be great if we use it as a separate doc and how we want to see it in each SC.

    - Rose: My view is similar to Alex. I feel lot of this stuff belongs to the educational section. I don’t want the guidelines to talk extensively about AI. I don’t want to end up expanding it further because of the scale.

    - Tzviya: I actually think that if we write that if you do X instead of Y then we need a standalone document. We need to relax our editorial standard for that. I feel an obligation to get something out about AI. A lot of people would be interested.

    - Susannah: There are some bits where AI would be an additional comment to existing SCs. Then there are other things regarding general philosophies, larger things to say which might fit into a separate doc.

    - Alex: I’ve been briefly looking at ideas. Some of them would require minor edits but some boost existing guidelines. Some of those are already written and would be pushed. Other ones would require going over once.

- **Community + News**

  - TBD

- **Other discussion/questions**

  - TBD
