# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-02-26

**Attendees**: Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Thorsten Jonas, Andrew Wright, Shane Herath, James Christie, Nick Lewis, Susannah Hill, Emma Horrell, Siddesh


### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/hXiScDA4gON4BthlszsofXQYW7dQ3t_hSH0P4ZteEJTfcsrbeo_lw8KuPtGDqpdX.X4F0vKul4dtj3qva>

Passcode:  =j*MnD?3


### Scribes
James Christie

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - Please review [notes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/minutes/2026-02-19.md) from last week.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - **Alex: 17** [pull requests for feedback](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls) (as required).

     - These are small, self-contained updates based upon TAG feedback that I’ve made an attempt to correct editorial issues.

     - Mostly text tweaks and minor adjustments.

     - **Action**: The group is invited to browse and comment on the pull requests. It may take an hour.

     - **Timeline**: 1-2 weeks. Sooner is better as it avoids merge conflicts. 1 week is **5th March**.

   - **Alex:** New issue - [Animation content update (CSS vs JS)](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/223)

     - Please also discuss the four existing ones noting the last meeting minutes as we chatted about the TAG requests RE these issues.

     - TAG request the differential on JS vs CSS animations as it is an impactful design decision.

     - **Action**: all are invited to comment on the open issue. The UX task group already has a view on animation, so coordinate that content where possible.

     - **Timeline**: ongoing

     - **Discussion summarised**:

       - TAG suggests that the WSG give guidance on animation technologies, based on their impact (e.g. how hard the CPU has to work).

         - Choosing CSS over JS (for example) might result in the computer not having to work as hard.

       - Currently Animation guidance currently lives in UX. The guideline as written is about whether to use animation (and how much), rather than implementation methods or differences in energy impact.

       - Broad support for the idea of adding Animation to the Web Dev section.

         - Since “animation” can mean video, the wording could be broadened to cover all technology choices that have an impact in the browser, incl CSS, JS, SVG, video formats, etc.

       - Measuring / estimating the impact of animation technologies is complicated and under-studied.
         - Most teams aren’t equipped to do it.

         - Answers aren’t clear-cut - the size / duration / complexity of an animation has variable impact.

         - The number of lines of code doesn’t dictate how hard the CPU will have to work.

       - The group agreed to continue the discussion in Github and to defer decisions.

**DISCUSSION RAW NOTES:**

- **Tzviya**: suggests we review other guidelines through a similar lens to look for downstream impacts and cross-overs.

- **Alex**: [current animation guidance here](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-sustainability-guidelines/#ensure-animation-is-proportionate-and-easy-to-control). It is light on implementation details as there are so many options and it’s easy to get stuck in the weeds. The intention is to avoid naming a specific technology (favoritism, risk of dating content). There are a great deal of complexities in calculating impact of different rendering/animation techniques.

- **Rose**: cautions that the word “animation” is often interpreted as including video. A broader interpretation might be to ask that teams assess impact (e.g. using browser tools) and make choices accordingly.

- **Nick**: do we understand the intent of the feedback?

- **Tzviya**: it might make more sense to leave the UX Guideline as is, and make a new Guideline (along the lines of Kazuhito’s proposal) in Web Dev, then link to it from UX. The UX section should not make tech-specific recommendations.

- **Thorsten**: the UX recommendation is about choosing whether to use animation, not the implementation. So keeping the UX guideline mostly as-is is appropriate.

- **Rose**: Rendering impact. In the future CSS might be surplanted. Focus the guideline on measuring and implementation. The [existing energy intensity section](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-sustainability-guidelines/#energy-intensity) is about goals, not assessment.

- **Alex:** This will be difficult to document, because no one other than I has studied the energy intensity of CSS elements. There is a lack of verifiable data / documentation. And it has a compliance implication.

  - Therefore, guiding teams to measure impact is setting them up for problems.

- **Rose**: offer the “why” of differing energy intensity. There isn’t a direct correlation between number of lines of code and compute intensity. But we can offer some context.

- **Tzviya:** this requires more detailed discussion (in Github).

- **Sid**: considering volume, size etc of the effects is another way to help teams decide how to scale the impact.

* Impact Ratings Feedback: <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178> (clarification on what will be published - JSON + explanation) rationale = notes

  - **Discussion summary:**

  - More Metrics: Susannah proposed that the impact ratings need a lot more metrics.

    - She has identified many and notes them in the public document (Github and / or excel).

    - The principle of “what is measured can be managed” applies.

    - Adding / extending metrics is not a problem - the JSON file is extensible (Alex).

    - **ACTION**: the group is encouraged to dig in on github, especially in places where impact has only been assessed by one person so far.

  - **Education and guidance:**

    - The metrics are currently accompanied by extensive notes and comments for internal use. These will not be published.

    - An explanation about the metrics will be written in the future.

    - There is merit in offering a “success guide” for teams trying to implement. It could contain worked examples of full or partial WSG conformance with industry specific examples. (Rose)

    - There is also merit in a Short Introduction / Cliffs Notes version, to help busy teams who don’t want the detail (Tzviya)

  - **DISCUSSION RAW NOTES:**

  - **Susannah**: unclear what the constraints are on which metrics are / are not to be included.

    - Consider optional metrics to cover every important point (in the WSG).

  - **Alex**: metrics document aspiration: to cover all success criteria.

    - The JSON file is extensible, we will be able to have impact scores for each individual point.

  - **Tzviya:** what will be published - not the Notes or spreadsheet, that was for internal use. Only the Metrics part will be published.

    - There will be a document at a later date.

  - **Rose**: consider beginner users wondering “what does success look like (full or partial)”. Helpful for learning how to assess and what “good” looks like.

    - This could go guideline-by-guideline, with worked examples. This would take time and effort and come later.

  - **Tzviya:** opportunity for a short intro / “Cliffs Notes” version. Will add to future agenda.

  - **Susannah**: What can be measured can be managed, so broad coverage (more metrics) would be valuable. Has added some suggested additional metrics to the document.

    - There are substantial environmental impacts that should be added. All sections should be evaluated for similar gaps.

  - **Action**: please review the issue and linked google documents. Consider the weightings, as those are mostly the output of one person.

    - [Explainer document here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N49GmFzW47xn1cZpXdP6hNqGBy7Vq1bdbEIzS5xDm90/edit?usp=sharing).

4. **Community + News**

   - W3C [breakouts day](https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026) - 25 March and 26th March.

     - TPAC attendees will be familiar with this unconference format. Sessions are 1 hour.

     - Group is encouraged to suggest breakouts to add to the roster.

     - E.g. sustainability, impact, performance, “how this affects your life” / coding practices.

   - TWiGS

     - <https://shows.acast.com/environment-variables/episodes/the-week-in-green-software-new-hosts> 

   - GreenIO USA meetup?

     - It overlaps with a WSG meeting.

     - <https://greenio.tech/conference/21/new-york-2026-may>

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
