# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-03-19

**Attendees**: Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Łukasz Mastalerz, Alisa Bonsignore, Siddhesh Wagle, Nick Lewis, Crystal Preston-Watson, Sarah Zama, Susannah Hill


### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/oj7iduJYt1898cxnjOPyyo_2SafEC62Yzb8QZNYYk-YGPg8WTjmfrh4U8kB3CEbL.zFwenOfaTQJqzpVP>
Passcode: Rq^bv0rA


### Scribes
Sid

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from thelittle scoutingg.
   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - [Introduction Update](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/291) ([Preview](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/AlexDawsonUK/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/291.html)) - Rose and Alex cleaned up intro, combined with summary, cleaned up ambiguities, added agreed upon definition of sustainability,

     - It’s broken into further sectioning

     - Rose: It might help people if we mention which sections we did editing on.

     - Alex: The ones which had most 1.5 ad 1.6, were typically identical. We’ve broken down by what kind of document they are.

     - Rose: 1.4 will be changed down the line

     - Tzviya: Diff view is available

       - <https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/291/6061eae...AlexDawsonUK:f2112bc.html#web-sustainability-overview>

       - Hidde and I did work on conformance and presented. We really want feedback on the introduction. Tim wrote a lot of stuff. I read the introduction. Introduction is the entry point.

       - Let’s give credit to Hidde and Ann

       - Tzviya: Let’s provide feedback by next week’s meeting on GitHub.

     - Rose: Suggestion regarding color blind thing.

     - Tzviya: will contact the one who designed it

     - Tim: We have a decent amount of homework. We’ve a lot of work done. Aligning the guidelines with the definition of sustainability helped.

- Homework: proposed approach -

  - Peer review for additional perspectives

    - Tim: There are lot of issues on GitHub. So everyone is welcome to have a look. Those who didn’t, if you have suggestions or proposal.

  - Those that didn’t pass? Reviewer proposes suggested revisions

  - Redistribution (deadline today)

    - Tzviya: We had originally asked to finish assignments by today. Everyone present here has done it. If anyone is ready to volunteer for more, I will assign you more homework.

    - Tim: I reached out to couple of people if they need help. Not heard back yet.

    - Alex: Is it worth giving a heads up that we would be assigning homework what changes have been proposed.

    - Tim: Absolutely something we are looking for

    - Tzviya: What’s the next step now that we have got the feedback. We need people to propose revisions. Either those who said that it didn’t pass take it and write a revised proposal. Something like a musical chair.

    - Alex: Best would be for the second individual to take a look at what the first individual reviewed.

    - Tim: Any additional perspectives will be great.

    - Rose: Perhaps we want to assign specific people to peer review then it is less pressure. It may also allow us to get different perspectives. It may be good way to resolve the challenge.

    - Tim: If I’m an ux professional can I give web dev? We don’t know but an outside perspective will be really helpful.

    - Sarah: I was given which was not UX but I learnt a lot because I had to take time. So what would be great is someone with UX experience to look at them.

    - Tzviya: We can absolutely work on that. I’ll go through the worksheet tomorrow assign some more.

    - Rose: When the tasks were assigned in the first place it was based on who’s active. It would be a great time to reactivate those who are not active.

    - Tzviya: When we are trying to meet a deadline. Generally it is true there are one or two people who are not pulled in. Maybe they have chosen to not be involved. Tej Kalianda from Google wants to get involved. I’m all for pulling people in but not when we want to accomplish.

* Revisiting a few issues:

  - Tim: A request to look at the below and different ways to communicate different ideas.Maybe they should be somewhere else or given more clarity.

  - Tzviya: Now that we are assigning, if you have any particular issue please feel free to add to it and ask the group for a larger discussion.

  - Alex: I’ve labeled quite a few that are under review. There are definitely worth taking a look at.

  - Tim: Is there enough opportunity to ask folks who have been assigned to look at the issues, take some of the questions there for consideration.

  - Alex: I’m looking at the list, they are more of holistic questions, more of what we were discussing as a group. But individuals can look at them.Following are the ones they have been discussing:

    - https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/234

    - https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/223

    - https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/221

    - https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/220

It’s open for anyone to give feedback.

Tzviya: it would be good if we assign the sections, maybe we should add to the cheatsheet, maybe create a new one. Alex and I can touch base or a topic for a larger meeting. Or maybe people figure out as they have a look.

Rose: With this first round of people doing their homework. Are there any particular concerns that came up?

Tim: Let’s focus on the definition of sustainability. There were two definitions - one about present and future. I focused on it. But others focused on the second. So there was this confusion.

Tzviya: We need to make sure the assignment is little clear.

Alex: In the introduction what we did was we didn’t redefine it but emphasize it.

- 264: [Responsible data practices](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/264)

- 252: [Ensure layouts work for different devices and requirements](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/252)

- 259: [LCA](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/259) - ‘functional unit?’ Assessment vs. Analysis

- 263: [JEDI](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/263) - different term?

* Biz/product strategy intro update - Susannah will draft?

  - Tim: It was brought up in the last meeting. Susannah did a fantastic job. It did bring up the idea that the intro to that section should be more clear.

  - Susannah: I will rewrite by the end of day or tomorrow.

  - Tim: It would be helpful why we are putting biz here would be really helpful

* Roadmap:

  - Tzviya: We have been working on the schedule. Grand plan to publish on Earth day didn’t work out. Now we need to get them by end of April. Alex and Rose will work on updating the revisions by mid June. Then we will go back to TAG and say we worked on what you asked for. We need to work on the charter. There are a lot of moving parts. But we definitely work on the update. As long as we are making progress it’s great.

  - Tim: It’s next week so there is work to be done. Charter work might push back a little bit but we have something approved before the charter expires.

  - Alex: I got the list on all the stuff of ideas and suggestions of bits and pieces we didn’t have time. I can pull that off for future meetings.

  - Tzviya: In terms of working on the charters that is done with team contacts then with larger W3C. Do we want to do something for Earth day?

  - Sid: We could release the definition.

  - Tzviya: We can work on a blog post and then give it to comms team.

  - Revised Guidelines by Apr 30

  - Revised WSG 15 June

* [Web Engines Hackfest](https://webengineshackfest.org/) 15-17 June (other conference ideas)

  - Tzviya: Sponsored by Igalia. They create a lot of pieces of browsers and tooling. They have this conference every Spring. They fund web standard features independently as well! They are interested in working towards sustainability. Hidde did a talk about CSS. If there is an interest in a face to face meeting. Want to gauge interest in someone closest to Spain. 

  - Susannah: There is a chunk of US presence who can go to New York.

  - Tzviya: We’ll have a meeting in Dublin in Oct. Can be helpful for British people. I’ll be in New York. We’ll avoid travel.

  - Rose: I know Matt Tutt who cares a lot about web sustainability. He’s more of a SEO person. If there is a possibility for him to present on our behalf.

  - Tim: I also know him. We never use Zoom breakout features which we can do with virtual.

  - Tzviya: We did it last summer. Let’s see how it goes over the next few weeks.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
