# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-01-22

**Attendees:** Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Alisa Bonsignore, Kazuhito Kidachi, Jennifer Strickland, Christian Hirano Brown, Fershad Irani, Morgan Murrah, Susannah Hill

### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KLRT6AfdFS07inb1SIv_he6UVW17JzJh/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KLRT6AfdFS07inb1SIv_he6UVW17JzJh/view?usp=sharing)

### Scribes
Fershad, Rose, Mike

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - None

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - **Alex:** Horizontal Review PR’s are now up on the GH awaiting W3C feedback (if we’ve met their requests) - everything is **thoroughly** documented in comments.

     - Accessibility ([#213](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/213));

     - Privacy ([#214](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/214));

     - Internationalization ([#215](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/215));

     - and a misc PR ([#216](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/216)) that updates the PDF checklist, updates GreenIT to the latest release, and applies some other minor general spec fixes.

   - **Measurability:** Next steps, as the deadline is under a month away for us to have something ready to showcase so W3C can see our intent and flag any issues.

   - **Notes:**

     - **Alex:** PRs in the GH repo for all the reviews we’ve got so far.

       - Accessibility, Privacy, Internationalisation

       - Response already from Privacy & Internationalisation reviewers.

     - **Jen:** A longer-term solution for how to handle a PDF checklist (quick reference guide) of guidelines is needed. Not for now, but later conversation.

       - **Alex:** Converted PDF into open document format as a stopgap measure. The HTML version that is accessible already exists.

       - **Jen:** The provided HTML version is not actually accessible, as it uses tables for layout and is unclear around the GRI ratings, PDF also needs a different approach. Let’s put a pin in it. [Issue logged](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/217).

     - **Mike:** Privacy feedback?

       - **Alex:** They liked what we had. No feedback. Accessibility, waiting for feedback from Glenda. She had concerns about accessibility of certain points.

       - **Jen:** I will ping her, as you want to hear from her. I went ahead and responded on [#205 ](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/205) for her, since we did the review together.

     - **Alex:** Green IT updated URLs without redirects so fixed that in the misc updates. Links to other specs and best practice are correct. Not heard back from security - but we did from privacy and they are intertwined. TAG is half way through. I will wait for their feedback. Fingers crossed.

     - **Mike:** Are security in the middle of something? Can we check with them?

       - **Alex:** Question for Tzviya, she might have some insights.

       - **Rose:** One of the items of feedback for Privacy was actually explicitly about security - the one about 

     - **Fershad:** Measurability - not much has happened. Created issue in December. Can’t work on things until the start of Feb. Sid has given good feedback. I have got three points. Sid suggested that for low or uncertain impact we could default to a zero - no measurable impact (scribe comment: provable? validated?). Rose has commented about needing to get data on real websites. One thing that came out of the AC meeting Tim and Hidde presented, I presented for Asia, was a comment that maybe instead of getting impacts for all guidelines, we just do it for ones that can be measured. We can’t reliably tell you what the impact is so we won’t try. It narrows scope, while also allowing us to give something more concrete about the gains that can be seen from implementing specific guidelines. I’d like to double click on that in February. Bit much otherwise by the deadline.

     - **Mike:** Would allow us to get a qualitative measurement. Provides an opening for the things that cannot easily be measured.

     - **Alex:** If we are not providing an active measurement, or we cannot find a way, thinking of compliance, who are working on that… They would probably need some sort of descriptor for compliance purposes. Would need a mention of if there is no scoring measure you will need to provide some sort of evidence in place of impact data.

     - **Fershad:** That would make sense. For some of the guidelines, they are worded like that. An impact rating for those guidelines makes less sense - you want the actual document. Regulators, for some, you ask for documentation, for others, you want numbers and figures. For others, not available.

     - **Alisa in chat:** I think some could be measured as present/absent.

     - **Rose:** Could be a boolean. Array might be better. XYX different document types. Relevant to be included in a report, but they are a Category A. Car tests as an example. Could then be translated into a boolean, based on the acceptable types. Gotta avoid dodgy organizations giving "certificates"

     - **Fish:** Worried about needing to keep track of global certifications. 

     - **Rose:** Presence / absence does not give you a sense of the quality. Organic in Italy is actually lower than the normal standard for pesticides. You want to have people try to backtrack.

     - **Fish:** A lot of this not looking for labeling schemes. Internal documents for a company. A lot of the stuff for these guidelines is like: Does your company have a training guide that does X, Y & Z. Here’s the document, does it have…  Energy attribution certificates (is this an EAC. Is it from this year? What region is it from? Is it from the data that the datacenter is in? It would be better if it was in the one used.

     - **Rose:** looking for Greenwashing and trying to avoid that happening.  A note about how to avoid that. Can’t keep track of everything. Assessment of 3rd parties in particular. 

     - **Fish:** First pass. Later iterations will hopefully make it better and richer.

     - **Rose:** Survey, asking for what kind of certifications related to energy that exist in different parts of the world.

     - **Fish:** Next steps. Early Feb. Present/Not Present. For some of the guidelines, have a go at revising that spreadsheet.  **Next call. Do we need to have an impact score for every guideline, or only present one that is measurable. Of others..**  Do the following. I will also incorporate Sid’s feedback into the spreadsheet.

     - **Morgan:** I want to emphasise that some of these that are not measured are more cutting edge so it may be more of a "not measurable yet."

     - **Fershad:** Wording is (sorry missed that!)

     -

4. **Community + News**

   - FOSDEM 

   - Jen - Now at the state of Maryland

   - Morgan - Talk - Browser animations - whole story around animation

   - [Mike Made a Massive Online Course](https://mgifford.github.io/wsg-mooc/) (MOOC) - Very AI

   - Asia-friendly meeting time - hopefully we can get more people involved. (We should try to advertise this more.)

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Morgan suggested: Better graphics to encourage folks to join Zoom meetings (especially this one for Asia)

   - **Rose:** Hear random thoughts about what you are working on. What you are interested in. 

   - **Kazuhito:** How do we spread the WSG in Japan? We are going to have a finalized [guideline.](http://guideline.is) 

   - When is it stable enough to translate?

   - **Alex:** Shared the revised timeline.

   - **Kazhuhito:** Understands it is good to wait

   - **Mike:** We should do something for Earth Day.

   - **Rose:** As a professional translator, I can say it’s common to translate right now when it is in this state and to do corrections later. It depends on deadlines. (In notes: translators often prefer longer deadlines and later corrections.)