# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-01-15

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle, Nick Lewis, Thorsten Jonas, Jen Strickland, Emma Horrell

### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
Share link:[ https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/vAWf1OAvzKrk0XoB4hEo2DAP301melVG5i\_XlWsHY8UHXEzXDOS-A8\_jmDBMEprg.bySauhJXDLDhbVxu](https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/vAWf1OAvzKrk0XoB4hEo2DAP301melVG5i_XlWsHY8UHXEzXDOS-A8_jmDBMEprg.bySauhJXDLDhbVxu)

Passcode: B6%\*XF3Q

### Scribes
Jen Strickland, Tzviya Siegman, Thorsten Jonas


### Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - **Reminder:** Next week's IG meeting will be at our alternate time, [see our calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/sustainableweb/calendar/) for events starting at 00:00 UTC (it’s currently set for the third Wednesday of each month).

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Horizontal Review (HR) is ongoing - look out for PR’s to provide feedback soon.

     - Alex and Rose had a “jam session” about approaches to addressing HR feedback.

     - Tzviya: I notice Mike posted a comment regarding the [a11y review](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/205). The W3C membership meeting also had a casual update on SWING status.

     - Alex: there was a bit of “rubbed the wrong way” about the a11y HR feedback, and they’re working on addressing it. There was a feeling that a11y was more important than sustainability in the way the team read it.

     - Rose: I did some copyediting to address the issue, what Alex did for the conformance section. Obviously, privacy & security have the same concern.

     - Alex: It might be a bit of a tricky one to leave out, esp re conformance.

     - Jen: Glenda and I worked on the a11y review together. I would like to review what Mike, Rose, and Alex have written. No need to feel “rubbed the wrong way”. There was a concern about how to balance, and it should have been clear that it was a situation by situation analysis. I reminded her that a11y is personal, and sustainability is systems-wide.

   - [Impact Ratings](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178) feedback discussion (see Sid’s comments)

     - Next [roadmap milestone](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/README.html#schedule) (2/15): Measurability Task Force scoring consensus and Impact API inclusion.

       - Sid: Adding to Fershad’s original doc - great original structure, but we needed to operationalize it. What does medium really mean? I added def of short/med/long and low/med/high for people/planet/prosperity. 

       - Tim: Should we do that for each category? Like ppp for UX?

       - Sid: yes, and should we add a 0 rating if there is nothing?

       - Rose: What is origin of doc

       - Tim: Measurability TF

       - Tzviya: Fershad did the majority of work after discussions at TPAC. Hopefully reviewed by everyone at this point

       - Tim: SCI for Web does a great job of personas - thinking of who we are reaching

       - Rose: reminds me of SEO and who we will reach. I also talk about complexity, and how many hours it will take me to do something. I am wondering if we can do a quick wins - something like changing DNS - complexity and time.

       - Tim: that’s how we originally did it

       - Rose: you can have qualitative + quantitative data in an assessment data in one framework, ideally supplemented with what skills would be necessary to implement

       - Alex: the one thing I’d be careful of is the limited amount of time to get this done. The more complexity we add, the more difficult it is to make it accurate. This will be a first attempt - progress over perfection

       - Sid: The current Google Sheet [WSG-Environmental-Impact.csv](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hqzz3SmGbU23vwen-Ugcxf3_iYxEDVW-Lu3Uxw_z0TU/edit?gid=1355727946#gid=1355727946) does a great job in providing scores for the guidelines. Developers can use those scores to decide which one will be more impactful.

       - Tzviya: Is metrics TF meeting or is this async?

       - Tim: async, but it might be a good idea to have a meeting to flesh out some issues

       - Alex: I’ll meet with Adam and Ollie next week, so I can reconvene the TF. On the point of 0 rating - the way the impact API has been built, if 0 is detected, it doesn’t show anything

       - Rose: complexity and time to implement, I could theoretically draft some of that. I do front and back end, and copywriting for strategy, so I may be able to do a lot myself. The areas where I'd need input from others would be business (lack of corporate experience) and actual implementation of infrastructure changes across organisations (again, lack of corporate experience). I am more likely to underestimate how long things take. But perhaps this is something Susannah, Tim, Mike, and Tzviya could supplement?

       - Jen: Mike has valuable experience. Ines and I have a lot of experience. Lots of us have input to improve the work and make it more globally usable.

       - Tzviya: We need to think about the time involved (for our committee). We have a month left, and we need to focus on what we can do within a month. Let’s focus on finishing the work Sid started on operationalizing the ratings.

       - Tim: We should be putting this into GitHub as there is only so much we can do in meetings between now and our deadlines. We should be more explicit about the things that we need in these channels.

   - Educational materials: open discussion - many of us speak, do presentations. W3C has EdX courses. What will make ed materials most compelling to people not in this group?

     - Framing question: What will make educational materials compelling outside of our own bubble?

     - Website materials

     - Slide template/repo

     - Other ideas? What else is needed?

       - Rose: SEO. I spoke to a client about this work, and when I told him about the SEO success, he was interested. Similar with perf, cost due to efficiencies. Running a VPS hosting WordPress and static sites alongside Nextcloud - not a blip, way more efficient. Sites where I did the copywriting didn’t enjoy the same success.

       - Sid: Focus should be on application side, HOW to apply guidelines. If this was in pre-LLM era it would be different. Now, it’s different. Why does this make sense?

       - Jen: When Rose said SEO, I thought Semantics! I would like to see us present at conferences, including remote conferences. We should share information about conferences - design, marketing, academia. We are good about speaking within the bubble, but we need to get out of the bubble.

       - Tzviya: get out to the big conferences as well - Web Engines Hackfest, Google IO, - tell them how they’re killing puppies and how to stop

       - Alex: approach from regulatory and compliance perspective as well. Look at a11y, WCAG has been around for 20 years and people are still not applying it. So, we need to work with regulators, pointing out how our work ties into existing legislation

       - Thorsten: We have different levels of where to act. We need to create awareness, teach people where to start, 1 hour quick start workshop - with 3 quick wins that everyone can do at Green IO

       - Sid: I was pushing for this agenda - Have we planned to create a visual representation of the framework? A step-by-step process to guide users in measuring the impact might help further and users will get a ready format in which to present their findings? For example, in training evaluation, we use frameworks that help evaluators follow a step-by-step process to evaluate training programs. Something similar can be done here, as it will make the process easier. It would be great if W3C only comes up with such a framework; otherwise, we would be bombarded by multiple frameworks, and people might get confused about which one to apply.

       - Alex points to [STAR](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/star.html#evaluation-methodology) for evaluation method

       - Sid: STAR looks like a good framework to present in workshops. 

       - Rose: There’s a huge move to move toward Digital Sovereignty in EU - move toward NextCloud (away from US Tech companies). When you’re in control of your own data, you can manage back up schedule, etc, which affects sustainability. Many orgs in Europe are exploring.

       - Ines: Adding to Thorsten - I’ve done many conferences on Web Dev, some of the biggest in Europe. There is always interest. The question from devs is always what’s next? We need to teach them how to preach up and where the money comes from. As a dev, I was a customer of the designer, who is a customer of product owner.

       - Tzviya: Susannah and I are beginning to do a quick “audit” of assets in Sustainable Web materials to apply the WSG. We will keep you posted and talk about what we learn and low hanging fall.

       - Jen: Plan to speak at policy conferences, and working to change policy. People in academia are a captive audience.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
