# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-04-23

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Eloisa Guerrero, Siddhesh Wagle, Sarah Zama, Susannah Hill, Emma Horrell


### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/y5bziNRhgUduUB1OFzJ3BcqsQIPOepEBQ-4y-MQ-2rBRJBjPUYcSJzfpmMBMLZOM.mpruLnFnFvPoq2t5?pwd=DEQp6TP1AGxnz61WsAAAIAAAACF7deWWaUzWYlkmxk23ctKUJM18w42aQ-JariFwIHn1QpaKDmhAY47JNzqAumlTVjAwMDAwNA>

### Scribes

Eloisa


### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - (none)

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - All: homework update + reminder

     - Tim: Deadline for peer review homework, just a few gaps here and there.

     - Tzviya: There are a handful that we want to reassign, Morgan’s been out for a while so we have 3.1-3.4 if anyone wants to take over.

     - Tim: The homework is reviewing a guideline to see if it fits our definition of sustainability, peer review, and adding any additional thoughts or comments or suggestions of each SC under each guideline.

     - Tzviya: I can do those 3, I will put myself down for those. The other ones assigned to Ryan, can Susannah take those over?

     - Tzviya: A handful of others I am unsure about, 10 in total, will reach out by the end of the week.

     - Tim: Handing feedback to Rose and Alex for them to interpret.

       - Mid-June is the deadline

   - Timeline: this week for homework, mid-June for implementation

     - Initial sample: sometime in May

       - Sometime in May we can share with TAG to move forward and actually publish

     - Full revision: June-ish

   - Impact ratings steps to implementation: documenting [**impact ratings**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178)

     - Tim: Done a bunch of reviews that Fershad created a while back, Alex created a JSON API that can easily be pulled into the guidelines as needed.

     - Alex: What we’re looking for is to firstly agree and finalise what the numbers are going to be, it’ll be key to give those values and labels as to what the ratings actually are and we also need to have documentation in place to back it up and provide exactly how we came to those values. When people look at the numbers, they’ve got something to refer to, not numbers pulled out of thin air.

     - Tzviya: A lot of this is already documented in the GitHub issue linked above. The ask is for someone to start drafting the short document (1-2 pager), so people can read this quickly. Looking for a volunteer to start writing something that will get edited.

     - Rose: What do you need writing up?

     - Tzviya: We are going to write up an explanation of the impact ratings, it needs explanation, it’s only a GitHub issue right now.

     - Tim: Taking what Fershad wrote in the issue, turn it into a simple explanation with rationale of impact ratings.

     - Rose: When does it need to be done by?

     - Alex: We have a good amount of time for it, Rose and I will work on SC, but the metrics-related stuff can be done independently-- not dependent on having the SC. Can become a markdown file in GitHub and linked to from the JSON file.

     - Tzviya: Tim and I can take the [draft that Fershad wrote](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N49GmFzW47xn1cZpXdP6hNqGBy7Vq1bdbEIzS5xDm90/edit?usp=sharing) on and see if it is “standards speak”?

   - Re-charter options (charter expires 10/31):

     - Extend charter

     - Recharter as is

     - Recharter with different deliverables (separate Biz/Product, AI, etc.)

     - Recharter as WG (not necessarily an option)

     - Tim: Would be great to publish a W3C note under this charter since it’s part of what the remit is in the charter. We can try to recharter as a WG, we know the challenges associated with that. Any thoughts from folks on what might be the potential path forward since it’s already April and if we need to recharter we need to write a new charter document.

     - Tzviya: If we extend the charter, it’s the easiest thing to do, doesn’t go through AC review, just a request to the team, paperwork for me and nobody else, but it means that if we think  we can WSG published by April 2027, that would be the best option. We have a recharter discussion in 6 months, we think we can get version 1 of WSG by April -- not necessarily April exactly, need to incorporate feedback. We’re inviting people to meet with a sample that Rose and Alex put together. Jeffrey from TAG, Philippe Lagore who is my manager, to get a sense of whether we’re on the right track/right direction and if it is feasible to publish. The June will be the last major release before we publish. Extending the charter through April is more like extending the charter through January before we go through hall of the moving parts of publishing. If we don’t need to add any deliverables and get it done.

       - Rechartering means we need more than 6 months to finish the work, not changing our deliverables, but we may want to add an AI supplement since it’s changing rapidly.

       - Changing from an IG to WG means there’s more focus on testing than we’ve had in the past.

     - Formal deliverables:

       - [At-A-Glance](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/glance.html) & [Introductory](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/intro.html) documents offering signposting to the group's work.

       - [Quick Reference](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/quickref.html) & [Checklist](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/checklist.pdf) which provide a compact list of the WSG's.

       - [Laws & Policies](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/policies.html) document overviews related regulatory and best practice policies.

       - [STAR](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/star.html) evaluation methodologies, techniques (case studies), and test suite (metrics).

       - [JSON API](https://w3c.github.io/sustyweb/guidelines.json) to facilitate third-party implementation of the guidelines.

     - Tim: Any thoughts?

     - Tzviya: Depends on what we’re talking about adding -- if it’s educational materials, we have time, but if it’s something that would go to the AC for review, probably not.

     - Rose: There’s a long list of things that have come up for internal review, and when I first edited the hosting infrastructure settings, I had not run my own VPS, but now that I have, I want to edit or check in that section. There are a lot of things that need to be updated or properly considered. I’m in favour of anything that allows us to go through these backlog items.

     - Tim: Are we in favour of publishing first and getting something as good as we think we can get it, or more perfection over progress? There’s a long list of things we’d like to include, but does that preclude us from publishing a note or should we publish first?

     - Alex: We’ve got a lot on the to-do list, from the existing SC, and it’s going to be time dependent on what TAG/AC come back to us on what changes need to be made if there’s further iteration on what we already have. It depends on A) What stuff we’ve still got to do in our time allotted, and B) Re-chartering whether we choose to go down the 6-month extension or full rechartering, if we have extra 2 years on the horizon, potentially we could say once we’ve cleared the TAG barrier of this initial content, we can look at this extra material that has been given to us once we’ve cleared the first version. We need to have something up there for people to look at, at the moment we don’t have anything officially published for people to look and say that this is something they can depend on it -- still in draft status. Focus should be on getting finalised, if we’re constantly adding to the specs, it’s going to be a neverending target.

     - Tzviya: I agree with Alex, I want to underscore about being in draft, there was discussion in my team about working with another company, and at W3C we need to consider sustainability effects, and the comment was, we can’t hold people accountable until we have the document that we can point to -- it’s essential we publish. No matter if we recharter, the question is do we get a 6-month extension or a 2-year recharter? Possible we don’t want to answer this question until we get the test sometime in May and get more feedback, but assuming everything goes well in May we can publish within that 6-month timeframe. My instinct is if feedback goes well, we ask for 6 months, and ask for recharter in 6 months, if we get more time based on feedback in May, we’ll do a recharter.

     - Sid: I agree with extending, we should publish as soon as possible and I have a question -- even if we publish, is there a frequency for updating versions? What is the frequency of those updates for minor or major versions?

     - Tim: We don’t have an answer for that. What do other groups do when they publish something official but make incremental changes?

     - Alex: Regarding the rechartering, we’ve got a lot of ideas for the next version, so that could help with the rechartering process to give that argument for why we need to recharter. As far as next versions go, when we’re in note status we can continue to update further iterations, it’s when we get to statement status that the spec is frozen at that point. We can still make small, incremental updates on a statement and once it goes through AC process/review, we can go through rechartering and make updates the same way WCAG makes new versions of documents.

     - Tzviya: Part of discussion in rechartering is if this is reflected in policy, frequent updates is not a good idea. WCAG takes years to update and they do the DOT releases more frequently now but we have to think about compromises -- do we do it annually, every two years, etc.? We wouldn’t do monthly updates or make it a living document. For the AI supplements, we’re not adding all the details of AI, since it is changing rapidly daily.

     - Emma: Looking at the lens of what you can do now and what sets you up for the future, I think what we’ve captured in the guidelines, I think we’ve done a good job especially for the UX ones, do we have an idea of what that feedback might look like? And how it could sway how much more time and effort we need to put in?

     - Alex: We’ve got to wait on what TAG’s response is to all of the updates that we are implementing across the board. They’ve looked at a quarter of the document like the UX section but the rest need to be updated across the entire document but they haven’t looked at the rest of what we’ve done yet. They’re going to spend a bit of time reviewing, and the business section is new in terms of W3C stuff -- they don’t tend to cover governance aspects so there might be questions about the relevance of that. There will also be AC review, and we’ll probably get more questions come up, some pushback in some areas. We don’t know what’s going to come up, it will be up to the individuals involved and how they perceive the content.

     - Emma: If we had the heads up, if it swings towards uncertainty then it allows for more time, and we don’t want to over-promise.

     - Tzviya: That’s why we’re doing the sample in May.

     - Alex: Re: Sid, on updating metrics, the way I designed the impact API is that it’s built separately from specs, so how it works is, we have the API that would sit alongside the specs and would be static for those who require the numbers to be as stable as possible. We could also have another copy of it, in the IG repository that we could keep more updated frequently and go with more modern metric data, or if we want to change what models we use, etc. that would allow those who want to analyse the differential on what we’ve got in the spec and what the current data is and compare/contrast the current API since it will be open data.

       - If we had the AI document separately because of the rapid changes in AI technology, we’re potentially in the same problem, with the editor’s draft, then to notes and statement status, we’ll be in a cycle where we’re in a yearly publishing circuit or we can’t publish frequently as AI changes.

     - Tzviya: Talking about the free-standing document that Ryan wrote -- not changing what’s in the current guidelines

     - Alex: If we had a separate AI guidelines document, would it be the intent to go through the same process to make it a W3C statement?

     - Tzviya: Don’t want to worry about it for now.

     - Alex: At the rate of change of AI, we’ll run into the same issue of keeping it up to date, the AI industry may not take it seriously unless it’s in a document.

     - Tzviya: We’ll worry about it as it comes.

     - Alex: The AI material is better within the WSG from keeping a holistic point of view, having one place for people to find it instead of branching into different things.

     - Rose: I agree with Alex, when we talk about AI we also need to be careful because it will keep changing and focus instead on principles.

       - I think there’s too much to cover, within AI there’s so many areas and changing, you end up with a philosophical debate. There isn’t clear, unified decisions to say it’s completely wrong to use it at all, or is it ok to use it just for this amount -- it goes into the “my use is sustainable”, etc. I would rather stick to principles that the W3C can continue to consider the topic of AI internally and sustainable AI as as separate WG could make even more sense

     - Tzviya: A separate WG will not happen, but how AI tech trends will impact our work and incorporate AI into the specification or standalone.

   - How are recent AI-related technologies trends are impacting our work (discuss and document at [**#4**](https://github.com/w3c/webai-roadmap/issues/4)) ([**#330**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/330))

     - Tzviya: How are the specs changing what we’re writing? In the Asia meeting a few weeks ago, there was a discussion about how you’re using AI to write your specs, this is how the specs are actually changing what you’re writing. We should eventually come up with a consolidated response to the issue.

     - Alex: Working through a detailed response in the GitHub issue, mostly on the positives and negatives of AI that impact the work we’re doing.

     - Mike: So many specs are geared for individual page or component, when we talk about standards they’re often specific but WSG is by nature holistic, thinking of other things including the systems behind it and looking at how web accessibility has struggled to deal with anything beyond the page -- how do we move beyond the page and ensure t hat people are able to think about systems?

     - Tzviya: Everybody wants to know what to do, people who are aware of the environmental effects of AI know about it, but most don’t do anything. Everybody is looking to us to solve their problem -- at the end of the day this is not a problem most of us can solve, it's a bigger problem than that. We can make recommendations, so maybe that’s what we explain in this issue.

     - Rose: I think the problem is people want to tell us that it’s okay -- AI is sustainable or it is justifiable. Do we want to encourage AI “veganism” or AI ethical meat?

     - Sid: We have these Ethical Web Principles, and if you look at AI, it’s disregarding most of those principles, they’re not transparent, secure, etc. -- how do we tackle this? Not just AI or generative AI in general, it’s an irresponsible technology in many ways and harming communities. We need to consider this.

     - Tim: Common theme of sticking to our principles.

     - Tzviya: We’re not going to convince people to stop using AI, we have to be realistic about it. We have to provide some guidance for the people who want to help but won’t stop using AI.

     - Tim: Response is not to not use AI but to think about the potential impacts of your usage of AI. I think we’re in a place with AI where we were with web sustainability 10 years ago, but what is important right now is sticking to principles and making more educated decisions based on what we know.

     - Rose: Most people don’t know what the impacts are, but even within, e.g. animal rights movement, you have different attitudes to campaigning -- some might have hardline views, but some may have friends who eat meat and we might want to influence people subtly and have a red line -- if someone says something that is not true, then I will say something. The point is you will get people who believe the “square of truth”, but is it actually going to help people? There are a lot of people who think they can only do things with AI. I think we should think about alternatives like teaching people how to script, how to do things for themselves.

     - Tzviya: Need to figure out the line with standards, education, and preaching. Teaching people how to script is not part of this group, but I think we should collaborate more.

     - Rose: We can tell people there are alternatives to AI, that should be a major point we make that there are always alternatives to AI to make an impact. We should aim for education, not deny the truth.

     - Sid: All data centres are coming to India, so we have water scarcity, now people are asking where to look to create responsible AI, so I think that’s when the guidance will help, think from that perspective on how to build a web that will not harm the environment.

4. **Community + News**

   - GreenIO NYC: May 13-14

   - [**Green Web Foundation report**](https://fossilfree.greenweb.org/2026/)

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
