# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-02-19

**Attendees**: Tim Frick (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Kazuhito Kidachi, Fershad Irani, Alisa Bonsignore, Christian Hirano Brown, Susannah Hill, Jennifer Strickland

### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/u27_kNwEXyGiXNzzAqQUTk8LBxZpLjzDS3Ns303eaEWGkf0rb8xNSxoiQZuSVU81._dmy91TDosXuQy6Z>
Passcode: &H6KXf!u

### Scribes
Jen Strickland, Fershad Irani

### Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - TBD - silence

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Impact ratings update: timeline, finalize scores for API JSON
     - Tim: Seeking consensus, in the last meeting everyone was good. Is there anything else?

     - Alex: I think we had consensus that we were good to go with what the measurability task force came up with.

     - Fershad: I saw that meeting, and was pleased people were mostly pleased with it. There was a github issue that Tzviya created. There were a couple of points where Alex and myself would make a few changes. I made those changes last week, removing some guidelines, revised some ratings. Sid also suggested a none rating, which was a good idea, and I implemented that. That changed the scores for some items. There’s a good spread of scores. One thing: the justification section needs more work, which is likely to come from more workshopping or putting online and getting feedback.

     - Tim: Thanks for that update. It seems inevitable as most feedback has come from Github and meetings. Once published there will be additional feedback.

     - Fershad: One thing to be aware of is that no one has given me any feedback on the ratings. I don’t really want it to be just my work. I’d like other input.

     - Susannah: I will commit to doing that by Tuesday. I can’t commit Ryan as he has a new role at Electricity Maps and has less time.

     - Tim: he has a new role at GSF, too.

     - Fershad: I think you can also speak to the business process section.

     - Tim: It is on my list to go through, the MightyBytes team did, too.

     - Fershad: the doc is currently read-only, but I can open it up. I’d like ux input, too.

     - Jen: recommend making it comment-able and sharing it in Slack.

     - Tim: It’s been developed separately from a lot of the spec, has its own API, and it will likely be popular. What it could mean for eco-grader, etc.

     - Fershad: When are we expected to share this more broadly?

     - Alex: We want to get it in front of W3C as soon as we can, as it is going to be a part of the spec. So, soliciting feedback from membership is needed, not just from TAG & horizontal review. ASAP. Still need to create the secondary doc on how we came to those numbers.

     - Tim: We did get a significant amount of feedback from TAG. There’s an open call for collaboration. I want to mention our original Earth Day target isn’t realistic. Our charter date is October, and we really want to get this done by then.

     - Alex: Out of the feedback so far, it’s essentially only looking at one section (UX) and said to let us know how that is, when that’s been resolved, then we’ll continue to the next section. I’ve been taking on parts I can put into small PRs, and hope for others to provide input and work.

     - Tim: Some of the TAG feedback can be applied across the board. So, we can let them know we did that, too. Alex, explain the Fish model?

     - Alex: As Fish has been coming up with the indiv criteria.

     - Fish: LOL

   - Open issues for volunteers to adopt

     - Phrasing of “[External Factors](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/220)” and [others](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/106)

       - Re external factors, there’s a Mural board with feedback on “external factors” and previously “variables”. That conversation was also documented in the Github UX proposals.

       - Fershad: It feels like a lot of this comes back to landing on a definition for “web sustainability” that’s something that we need to document, specify “web” and where does the web end; then the business processes.

       - Tim: if anyone has feedback or ideas on that, that’s welcome.

       - Jen: I’ve noticed a lot of the conversations are going well beyond the web, which is great for discussion, but is tough to focus on our purview and deliverables. E.g. Ethics of AI

       - Susannah: A lot of the business work, where it needs to focus on business principles, and how to structure, and the…

       - Tim: and the decision-making frameworks, like the work the GSF is doing with the digital pass…{missed}… schema, sustainability statement, etc.

       - Alex: for instance, the ethics of AI does have some correlation to the work that we’re doing, like the web & ai interest group… so w3c does have some scope for that kind of work. I know the WSG does have the juncture of not just web but societal impact, so how it impacts the people and the planet.

       - Jen: Conversations are extending beyond core topics (e.g. geopolitics, current affairs etc). How do we bring those back to pixel-to-pixel conversations that are related to web sustainability.

       - Tim: yes, those conversations are important, and then how we take those and turn those into … I’m not clear on the w3c process for that.

       - Alex: the good news is that I was scouting through the back burner stuff and we’ve got over 50 things for new guidelines and content.

     - [Avoiding carbon tunnel while being holistic](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/221)

       - Tim: I think this is also related to the conversation around a definition for web sustainability. I think there’ve been a lot of conversations among groups. The overlaps and such. i.e., potential content removal, … My worry about removing, similar to the carbon tunnel conversation, is we may remove things related to security/privacy.

       - Alex: Obviously, we want a11y, security, privacy to be sustainable, and to be so in the groups working on them. We know that, for example, in the a11y section with alt text and form a11y, these are important for sustainability, like images not available, etc. or turned off intentionally it reduces data transfer. The alt text is there for the purposes of people, not just for sustainability. My suggestion for removals is to be encouraging WAI, websec, etc., to be considering sustainability and where the crossovers are and mentioning in their own specs. Perhaps in the future there can be a checklist as part of w3c process. Something we should potentially consider.

       - Jen: Envision a way (equation) which allows different task forces to evaluate the guidelines to help balance/think through conflicts. For example when we met with web performance [at TPAC] there were some trade offs that were mentioned - some things you have to do for web performance which don’t impact on sustainability.

       - Jen: We have to figure out how to guide people in different groups through those conversations. How do you make a responsible decision. E.g the GSF are focused on sustainability, so they may not do things for performance reasons but rather will focus on those which impact sustainability.

       - Jen: How can we encourage people to think about new solutions that prevent trade offs.

       - Tim: Many discussions have been had on this topic.

       - Christian: {missed} “There are currently so many different definitions of sustainability - for these guidelines, perhaps they should have their own more web-context related definition.” “Under the UN's SDGs, a core philosophy is for no-one to be left behind - this has a direct impact on ensuring accessibility.” Under the UN SDG, if you’re looking at social sustainability, then that would include more things, too. Once you have that defined, then I think you can make those tradeoffs.

       - Alex: “Devils advocate: My viewpoint on sustainability is that ESG must include the societal impact - which means accessibility, privacy, security must be met to be sustainable - so conflicts should not be possible. But that's my perspective.”

       - Tim: Absolutely, it seems to me we should dedicate some time in an upcoming meeting on this.

       - Alex: {Expanding on the above quote from Zoom chat}

       - Fershad: thinking about how we can move forward with that feedback. Here’s why we think it’s important for sustainability. Could it be worthwhile to look at the overlapping or conflicting other guidelines (other group), and identify those gaps, go back to TAG and indicate how, or they go back to the other group and provide feedback.

       - Tim: Horizontal review should cover this off, but we can look at it again.

       - Jen: Horizontal review processes are not as well oiled as we wished, and so the hope they are doing that won’t always be realised.

       - Jen: Understands Alex’s reference to ESG, but worth noting that other groups are not using ESG as a basis for their thinking and guidelines. Each WG is working based on different priorities & values. Important for people to have a framework/model to work through these, how do we help teams make these decisions on what they prioritise?

       - Tim: More conversations with different groups will be valuable and something that is being worked on. Especially if we want sustainability to be one of the core principles of the W3C.

       - Jen: Fought for this when AB was defining W3C principles. Probably a result of how the W3C is structured and the organisations people represent. Fought for language to go beyond “users” but came up against pushback from established organisations.

       - Tim: hearing these conversations, and how this group came out of nowhere and was just sharing resources, and now there are lots of people talking about it. Those mindsets will have to come around, perhaps from regulations but hopefully other things. 

       - Alex: things like ESG are used in policy now, underpinned in regulations. It may just require us keeping on, telling the story, wording things in the right way. We can do it if we keep putting things in the right direction.

     - [Discussion of possible W3C overlap removals](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/222)

       - discussed above

     - [Animated content update (feedback request)](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/223)

       - Tim: I know Morgan has been writing about that, and others helped with the presentation.

   - Tim: please do go to the issues and contribute.

4. **Community + News**

   - [SCI for Web update](https://greensoftware.foundation/articles/designing-sci-web-what-we-agreed-and-what-comes-next) - is now in public review, go check it out. Alex: we’ve gone through it, now floated to the wider community for feedback. Any comments are welcome. Hopefully it will become a standard, become part of measurability.

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
