# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-02-05

**Attendees**: Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Eloisa Guerrero, Jeroen Hulscher, Emma Horrell, Thorsten Jonas (only last 15min), Siddesh, Susannah Hill, Nick Lewis, Andrew Wright

### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/f2c-6QaP_sjqUMi1eBrowdouTtVzr5Q8QNnhlCcbldiFGBLsHRO4HoybRq2BCLjv.VUb28QWnEE45il7z?startTime=1770300199000
Passcode: 2mZn+6x*

### Scribes
Eloisa Guerrero

### Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Verbs in Guidelines?

     - Tim: Discussion in the chairs meeting yesterday about using verbs in guidelines.

     - Tzviya: Related to the concept of conformance. When talking about the category of conformance, when we’ve accomplished it, at what point is removal “accomplished”? They don’t have a verb in the SC, it would just be unnecessary and redundant information. When we get into what is conformance, we don’t have to think about at what point removal is also accomplished. Splitting hairs, but need to define what conformance looks like and what it means. We need to start thinking about what “remove” means and how we know we’re finished removing. Should we have a category for unnecessary/redundant information?

     - Tim: Different from how we’ve done before -- anyone have thoughts?

     - Alex: For example, optimising media for sustainability-- does that mean we need to remove the word “optimise” because we don’t know at what point we stop optimising.

     - Tzviya: We’d have to figure out the wording, some are more difficult to reword than others. Sometimes it is easier to just cut out the verb.

     - Alex: That would also apply to SC as well as the guideline?

     - Tzviya: Almost all of the SC are done -- don’t need any further work.

     - Rose: This would be undoing hours of my past work. Removing the verbs would reduce readability, appeal, and shareability.

     - Tzviya: We’re not planning, this is a discussion.

     - Rose: Would be good to know about this before. SC are already based on nouns. In terms of readability, it isn’t unstructured because of verbs so it’s easier to understand what the task is. I personally think it would reduce readability, not a good idea.

     - Sid: I don’t think we need this at this point, there’s no harm in using those words. Auditors are doing their best to evaluate, and if more work is needed, they will keep working on it.

     - Tim: Great point, so much of sustainability is about continuous learning and improvement -- nothing is ever done.

     - Tzviya: We can’t make decisions based on how much work has already been put in - sunk cost fallacy. This comes back to the discussion about who the primary audience of this document is. I don’t think we can say that the concept of progress over perfection for conformance. For example, at the privacy principles, we took the idea of the headers where verbs are not included, and I agree with the point about readability, but we’re here to discuss whether this makes a difference or not. Would removing the verbs change the meaning from a conformance perspective?

     - Alex: Whether we have verbs or not does not make any difference to me because the fact of the matter is that the actual content we’re asking people to conform with is the body of the SC itself. The title of the SC/guideline is neither here nor there, just describing what’s to come. If we say it in verb/noun form, it’s more descriptive of what the  content is going to contain. We should lean more into readability, and I don’t think it’s beneficial to change the way it’s being described based on what other groups are doing. What we currently have in the guidelines is more helpful because it states things in plain language perspective that is something we’ve tried to underpin throughout the document. Having it in a non-action-based methodology is more tricky if people just cut and paste the title and remove context to work with. I’m in favour of keepings things as is.

     - Emma: If we think about what we want people to do with these guidelines, it is action -- it is people doing something. The goal is that they do something rather than nothing. I think removing the verbs could possibly be detrimental. It takes away the call to action which I believe sustainability is all about.

     - Susannah: How the guidelines are written/edited, we need to think of the audience first so readability and intelligibility are already challenging. Anything that makes it more readable. Shorter is better, but verbs also make it better. I’d defer to the editors in terms of what makes it readable. We probably added clarity while we were doing it, and clarity is king. If we need to define the word optimise, then we would also be trying to understand what excess or unsustainable mean.

     - Rose: The verbs don’t always make it longer, and with any new spec that gets attention, we need to make sure things are interpreted properly. We could end up making it more ambiguous and sometimes we need a directional verb (this happens and do this) and it won’t be clear what the end result will be. This is the same issue with WCAG. Many headlines in WCAG are not clear. So I think it would be conducive to make sure people understand in using the guidelines as quickly as possible.

     - Tzviya: Overwhelmingly it seems we should leave it as is. Our primary audience are the implementers, and for conformance, we need to do another step. Perhaps write a separate document for it. The regulators need to be thought of separately as not conformance but regulation and implementation are not the same thing.

     - Tim: We do need their involvement because they’re going to have different perspectives.

     - Alex: Focus should be placed on SC content, that way it’s scoping material as to what is within scope for their perspective. That is the meat of what the spec is and where the wording is critical as far as what we are asking people to conform to with regards to a step process of meeting SC and guideline, etc. I don’t think it necessarily matters what the title descriptions are, we can be explicit in the conformance section that the normative material is the SC content itself. As long as it is explicitly clear within the conformance section, that should be enough for regulators to have a solid foundation to underpin.

     - Tim: Important to have these conversations however challenging they may be. Solid foundation is a good term.

     - Rose: If there are decisions that affect the editorial work in particular, we should avoid a situation where it’s discussed briefly with the chairs and Alex, and remember there are two editors who should be consulted before taking it to the rest of the group.

   - Is the [impact framework](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178) valuable as is? (implementors, please chime in) - some proposals to include only “quantifiable” items.

     - Tim: There are guidelines that are currently not quantifiable, and I’d like to pose the question to the group about whether to do more work in the impact framework. The feedback we’ve gotten so far, we should only focus on quantifiable items such as minification, but are there perspectives from this group especially the editors.

     - Alex: It is flexible enough to work with both perspectives. I think it’s tricky because there’s nuance in whatever we try and measure, but even if you look at the most simple aspect of sustainability, it’s like peeling onions and finding more layers. There are multiple ways you can measure things, things we know and don’t know about, factors to take into consideration-- our area of sustainability has not been around for as long as accessibility so we don’t have as much data to draw from or the models. SCI at the web  is currently at the next stage for development so hopefully it progresses into the next quarter and become public and we could potentially use that but we don’t know if it will be ready in time. Whatever model we use, it will have flaws, whatever we end up using, it will need to be improved over time. There will be tooling involved at some point, new ways of interpreting things, so it’ll be difficult whichever way we focus on a select few or more straightforward than other one to measure, etc. We have deadlines and we have best guess estimates, best effort.

     - Tim: We know we’ll get pushback on it, and this goes back to progress over perfection again.

     - Tzviya: We should stick to the model we have for everything -- the suggestion to measure only some things came from people who like to measure things and are used to things easily measured. If we choose specific guidelines to measure based on ease of mechanism, people will ignore the other guidelines and that is the biggest risk. We need to document well why we’re doing it this way and why it’s okay.

     - Tim: Might want to do a call for a consensus.

     - Tzviya: There aren’t a lot of us here today. We might want to put it on GitHub. (See Issue [#195](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/195))

     - Tim: Let’s do it for people who are here to see where we’re at and follow it up on GitHub today or before the end of week.

     - Sid: Wanted to ask about anything that’s tangible/intangible -- things that are easily quantifiable?

     - Tim: We do on some level, but as precursor to the impact framework, we have a spreadsheet that can show which can be tested with software, some that require human-based testing, but it will change over time and change how we approach some other things. The JSON file that Alex put together is flexible enough to accommodate those changes.

   - Brainstorm about speaking at big conferences: Google (April), Web Engines Hackfest (June), State of the Browser (Feb)

     - Tim: Anyone have thoughts on speaking at conferences. If anyone has specific examples, educational materials, presentations?

     - Tzviya: The conferences above are not the types we’ve been at in the past. If we’re accepted to speak at these conferences, we need to tell a compelling story about why these attendees should care and what they can do. We have to make the case for sustainability. Would love brainstorming about this and who are willing to attend these conferences.

     - Susannah: I find this topic doesn’t get enough attention in sustainability and tech conferences, but I want to keep trying because the advent of AI amplifies the impact of all online computing as a sustainability issue. Wondering if we need to think about getting into the Climate Weeks because until online is spoken about in the same places as agriculture, manufacturing, raw materials and extraction, we’re not going to get the public pressure. The GSF San Francisco are trying to get into SF Climate Week. Ryan did Climate Week. There were almost no tech talks on our topic in [NY Climate Week](https://www.climateweeknyc.org/). Tried to find good sustainable computing events, but we should probably try to push our way into those types of events and watch the small turnout. Once we get latched into the fact that the global supply chain and raw minerals are connected to white collar companies that don’t manufacture but do work online, they are connected to these issues.

     - Tim: People are making more of these connections. It’s been a tough sell for a long time now and finding out what the threads are to make it a compelling story.

     - Tzviya: Will look into Climate Week. Going back to the tech world where we’re looking at developers, product owners, etc., in Web Engine Tech Fest in Spain is a giant “unconference”. I think this is an area where we could put our foot in the door but it has to be a compelling story and not just what the guidelines are.

     - Rose: Beyond just about the guidelines it may be sensible to think about how to link it to other topics and make it relevant to the conferences and their themes. In Germany, one of the big  themes is free and open source and digital independence. That’s going to be a dominating theme in general and I would look at options of combining the two. If you’re changing your systems anyway, may as well make them sustainable at the same time. That angle might bring in people’s interests. E.g. performance -- make connections there. We don’t need to just think of sustainability or just tech, but these niche areas as well.

     - Tim: Digital sovereignty stuff going on in the EU is relevant.

     - Sid: Are we going to talk about guidelines and expect people to react to it in a favourable manner? Or looking at the application and impact level so they can get inspired rather than just talk about the guidelines. Are we documenting these projects in a separate repo so we can use this impact framework to showcase the change project and would be inspiring for people attending those talks.

     - Tim: Alex has tracked mentions, presentations, etc. on what has happened already related to sustainability, but it probably makes sense to capture it and collect it somewhere.

     - Alex: Would it be helpful to transfer that document into the IG GitHub repo?

     - Tim/Tzviya: That would be great.

     - Tzviya: Can make a repository to link/add actual presentations if you want them there.

     - Sid: What we can do for people who don’t do regular talks: if we can do some form of design that I can share with others to showcase our projects through the framework itself.

     - Tim: People from the group may have already given presentations already and it would be great to collect them in one place that is publicly available.

     - Sid: [showing screen of his presentation] Shows a sort of journey/map as a template for storytelling and showcasing our projects.

     - Tzviya: Morgan rehearsed a talk he did last week. His approach was he was working on his own website, ran into a feature that wasn’t sustainable, and figured out how to make it sustainable. That kind of approach is nice also where you’re sharing your own journey and letting the CSS community know how they can improve their work.

     - Susannah: One thing to consider is the power of asking for change. As we consider ourselves as WSG or try to go a little greener with our hosting, we might have more moral authority to ask GitHub to reconsider their hosting. In the tech community, having the question asked is very effective because nobody who’s written a product and is proud of it wants it sub-optimised.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD


