# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-05-28

**Attendees**:  Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle, Thorsten Jonas, Susannah Hill, Jeffrey Yasskin, Brian Kardell

### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely

<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/-30a6wZ-G4Xo6wF-YMQ6JnWpdHiglDmj_g4kWqTePgVZ7XCJTp-NjBQf61CDD765.D6IJ62SFGvYUS5o0?pwd=DLmh3lPg2S10b7QOkgAAIAAAAMVNBdBuNTV7zQPNRQ0RBmeQRqvg71WblKYjYCcfqRHYoXzi1FiCOmaDBG7exBWA8zAwMDAwNA>


### Scribes
Sid


### Agenda + Notes

- Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

- **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

  - TBD

- **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

  - Feedback on sample [**edits**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls)

    - Readability

    - Integrating feedback from [TAG](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/1181) (Jeffrey)

    - Each revised Guideline will be open for 1 week before merging (unless discussion is ongoing)

      - Alex: 4.1 - First SC on metrics side of things. Feedback on greenhost guidelines, measurement success criteria - breaking that success criteria into two because it was wordy. Because it talks about the provider and person looking for it. The way it is worded now makes it good. 

      - Susannah: One of the things going on with section 4. It is a wide variety of people for which it applies. If you are somebody who has a wordpress blog then you don’t have that much control.

      - Alex: Best is to separate it into two independent criteria - the provider and the end user criteria.

      - Tzviya: Fish's proposed wording is "Monitor, acquire, and track key indicators to assess and transparently report the environmental impact associated with hosting your project. Ensure any external providers selected also make it possible to easily access and track metrics and key indicators. Track energy and water use, and where possible, monitor and optimize server resources usage such as CPU and memory to identify opportunities for optimization and identify overprovisioning."

      - Alex:

        - Include sustainability metrics in your decision-making process when selecting hosting providers, platforms, and infrastructure. When using external hosting infrastructure or services, ensure the provider shares clear sustainability metrics such as Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE), Water Usage Effectiveness (WUE), and Carbon Usage Effectiveness (CUE). If basic metrics are not available, consider alternative providers.

        - Monitor, acquire, and track key indicators to assess and transparently report the environmental impact associated with hosting your project. Track energy and water use, and where possible, monitor and optimize server resources usage such as CPU and memory to identify opportunities for optimization and identify overprovisioning. 

      - Jeffrey: If it is difficult to classify then it’s best to separate

      - Tim: There is an issue posted long ago about separating product and business strategy

      - Tzviya: Including metrics in the decision making process, choosing a sustainability provider is a business need but it can fall into hosting. A person who owns a data center or one who uses hosting. I like it even if it breaks.

      - Rose: There are a lot of potential criteria where people will not have necessary control but we should reflect that. When they have control they obviously need to do it. In the future version technical things can be added. On the other hand when people don’t have control they need to have enough information from guidelines to know what to ask for. I personally think there are many different technical factors, it can’t be broad enough. We need to be sure to make it clear. Try to find that balance - These are the things you need to look for in a hosting provider beyond being green. There are too many complexities in how hosting is provided.

      - Tzviya: We need to come to a decision of how we are going to come to a decision

      - Jeffrey: I’m happy to go through updates.

      - Tzviya: Better to get a perspective from Jeffrey whether we are on track.

      - Jeffrey: I didn’t get time to go through my comments whether they were implemented.

      - Brian: It is a long document, supplements. I didn’t make it through everything. It’s interesting, difficult how TAG can give you feedback here.

      - Tim: There are improvements, and we are moving towards expectations. If you all take some time to take a look and let us know whether it is on the right track.

      - Tzviya: We have a lot of terms like practical, appropriate… etc. We have them for a reason. But what is a better choice? Also a discussion about timeline since TAG needs to go through it.

      - Susannah: We struggled with “appropriate” because we needed a guideline to give a direction about sustainability. It was uncomfortable. It would be great to come up with something that would be a replacement.

      - Jeffrey: It would help to say what you are trying to say by providing what you are trying to achieve so that readers know what you know appropriately. It depends on each use of appropriate (e.g use <video> element to display video).

      - Rose: Another problem with the word is that it is about balancing interests. That means asking people to decide appropriately. There are common practices that you will end up doing as a business. It would be great to get feedback on how that can be managed and best approach.

      - Jeffrey: Sometimes the guidelines say “Think about the tradeoffs” but they don’t mention what to do. For file format we have a better alternative but we can say which file format matches the content.

      - Susannah: Give instructions when we are not instructing.

      - Jeffrey: Asking selected WCAG folks to review would probably also help. Hidde and Wendy perhaps?

      - Rose: The thing I’ve noticed - our guidelines are shorter and easier to read. WCAG has more explanation. We’ve been avoiding extra details. But if we need then we have to.

      - Tzviya: We clearly need to work on the wording. Regulatory language and guideline language.

      - Jeffrey: We don’t need to increase the doc. If we don’t have something better then be straightforward and tell users that we are not giving direction.

      - Rose: Keep the word appropriate and underneath it “what is appropriate” with explanatory notes.

      - Brian: One of the issues I had when I was reading this… Who is the audience? If we are gearing towards regulators or developers or consultants or auditors to measure this. Confusion for me: You have things SCs that are measurable. In that we have checklist - auditor can’t go through it and say - “did you consider” - eg. “your site has lots of ads.” . “You did consider it but you didn't implement it because ads give you business.”

      - Tzviya: We had a number of conversations about “who the user of this doc is”, but also “what we are testing?”. One of the proposals we had was breaking the doc with testability. In the end we decided to leave this structure.

      - Sid: We need to also talk about which SCs are easy enough to apply.

      - Tim: In [Guideline 4.3](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/343), I was wondering how we are x-refing to the other SCs that mention compression (e.g. in UX)

      - Alex: I think it’s OK for them to stand alone, as long as they are about sufficiently different topics, If there is real cross-over, maybe we should merge or delete

      - Tim: timeline - get any feedback in as soon as possible (end of week)

      - Tzviya: We are going to keep PRs open for one week and ask everyone to take a look and comment. We’ll work with TAGafter this revision to figure out when we can publish.

      - Brian: important to meet devs where they are. They are not likely to read this whole thing. HOw will this apply to them.

      - Tzviya: We are not metrics. We are impact

      - Alex: We are building an impact API

* [**TPAC 2026**](https://www.w3.org/events/tpac/2026/tpac-2026/): Dublin - Oct 26-30

- **Other discussion/questions**

  - TBD
