# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-06-11

**Attendees**:  Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Thorsten Jonas, Eloisa Guerrero, Siddhesh Wagle, James Christie, Crystal Preston-Watson


### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/UeY-w1mxzxQATKDw-RWWJOFiPrMprEeN3Bkk5z3R6nomjWzLY_P39jog_p7aG1ct.6EGUaayPdgLR4BNK?pwd=DOmJGV7CplhMv1ordAAAIAAAAOAWteo3OlN8osX9oMJ590gXHiCunbXFzVG4c4K68J3VuZDrpMNqZhs0zIxcf4quSDAwMDAwNA>

### Scribes
Eloisa Guerrero


### Agenda + Notes
- Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

- **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

- **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

  - Measurement (Impact API):

    - How do we want the [data presented](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hqzz3SmGbU23vwen-Ugcxf3_iYxEDVW-Lu3Uxw_z0TU/edit?usp=sharing) in the spec? We have:

      - The final score.

      - PPP (People, Planet, Prosperity).

      - Timeframe.

    - All of it is useful but should it be visible against each guideline or should we just settle on one (final score) with the full results in the external doc that declares how we settled on the scoring (in a nicely formatted table).
  
  - Tzviya: Hidde and I did work on a conformance model. Discussion today is whether we like the idea of having the introductory remarks have information on impact framework and integrate with each guideline, or keep the scoring separate? Open to discussion.

  - [**Fershad’s comments**](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-sustainableweb/2026Jun/0004.html) (For mine, if we're going to include "impact" information for each guideline in the main document then it should show all the information in table format (example below from the PR). Presenting just the "impact score" without context would be confusing in my opinion. I can also see folks finding a score they don't agree with & just raging rather than clicking through to supplemental material to get a better understanding (the internet in 2026 ... 🤷🏼‍♂️).

  - Tim: Please read through Fershad’s comments.

  - Alex: Re: Fish’s comments, we could potentially go through a separate route, have a table with all scores and success criteria blocked out. A sortable table with scores for each guideline/SC so people can browse at their leisure in separate documents that would be linked to the measurement section of the introduction. Could be a route of keeping the two areas separate and easier to manage from our perspective.

    - Keeping it up to date will be tricky, could remain static and quickly go out of date. We have a lot of contextual information as well and not just a score (Planet, Prosperity, People aspects) -- trying to represent that in a guideline or a SC could look messy or be tricky for people to be able to understand without corresponding explanations.

  - Tzviya: I want to bring information about how the scores were arrived at into the main document. It would be confusing to have tables with scoring, there is a section called Impact in the introduction. Agree with Fershad’s comment, see the [**PR that Hidde**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/348) posted.

  - Alex: My concerns about keeping it updated is that the need for APIs makes it somewhat redundant, makes it more difficult to adjust the numbers if how we define those numbers (models or however we choose) is pre-planted within the document.

  - Tzviya: Explanation is just that it exists and what the numbers mean but not a score for each guideline.

  - Alex: We could extrapolate on that and how we came up with those scores. We don’t have contextual information on what models we used because there weren’t any reliable ones beyond what we already had in the documents. GRI information already existed within the document. The justifications that the group came about weren’t based on SCI for web. If we keep it separate and its own entity, we could maintain the measurements independent of the spec.

  - Tzviya: While I want the ability to update easily, I think keeping the impacts separate might not be mentioned.

  - Alex: If we were to say that we were updating as part of our charter, that we were going to be updating the specs on a regular cycle, that would be fine. The measurement group’s concern came about when everything was baked within the spec and couldn’t be updated, coming up with figures that could potentially become an issue for longevity of specs.

  - Tzviya: Need to ask my colleagues to get feedback, this is a statement not a recommendation so we might be able to get away with publishing more frequently.

  - Alex: Avoiding overcomplicating the end user, I agree with Fish that the best practice is -- if we cancel an update, to have the information as Hidde mentioned in the PR to have those numbers as an external resource so people can see what those potential ratings are as a table, or in a Markdown document that’s sortable.

  - Tzviya: I think the question is what goes into the introduction. If we are able to update relatively easily, the question for the group is, would we feel comfortable publishing it like this or leave it generic enough -- just a matter of what document we update.

  - Tim: Alongside AI this seems to be the main thing people want to talk about -- best practices around metrics/measurement. Whatever we can do to put that information out there even if the answer is complicated, it would be important to at least make it as visible as possible. Being upfront about the fact that it is complicated and important, and what most people will default to as they start learning about this stuff, is a valuable service.

  - Sid: The analogy of documentation with code: people update the code but the documentation doesn’t get updated -- we could be updating this but the metrics aren’t getting updated.

    - Concerned that it won’t get updated if it’s separate.

  - Tzviya: Will talk to colleagues at W3C on how frequently we can update. If we can update as often as we want, that alleviates some of our concerns.

  - Alex: There isn’t a good way of modelling yet, so we don’t have a way of modelling each of the guidelines and come up with a singular score. Had to make it up as we go. We can’t just point to an external resource and use that, it’s a tricky problem to solve.

  - Sid: When you say modelling, do you mean formula for calculating its impact?

  - Alex: Based on GRI mostly, but if something like SCI for Web provides a standardised way of calculating the energy emitted from certain activities, we can calculate the intensity of each SC, come up with a standardised routine way of calculating each of those things on an agreed upon set of arguments in the SC. We can point people to SCI for Web to offset the GSF and provide other people who want to replicate what we’ve done. The modelling hasn’t caught up with where we’re currently at.

  - Tim: That modelling will change as time goes on.

  - Tzviya: We had to mention impact in the introduction -- the length and detail is to be determined, what we don’t have is the standalone document, the impact or the metrics, and we know that will change. That is a TBD document and we have to figure out how it will look like and how we will update it. We know it will not be constantly changing, but once SCI Web comes out, it will be updated significantly. We don’t need to have this conversation today but we do need to start on that document.

  - Alex: Tooling is usually external of W3C, would it be something that should be set up as an open source project and externally link to from the specification that way?

  - Tzviya: We’ll figure that out.

  - Alex: For maintenance purposes, there might not be as many restrictions if it’s external to W3C.

  - Tzviya: Depends if we’re talking about a document or what our goals are with it. Push this to another day.

  - Sid: This has been done for WCAG, I see conformance levels but impact hasn’t been done there, so this is the first time we are doing something like this.

  - Tzviya: Hidde presented this to AGWG to present a scale instead of pass/fail. Even with A/AA/AAA with pass/fail, it’s one of the biggest problems with WCAG.

  - Lots of feedback on [**existing PR’s**](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pulls) more on the way!

    - Alex: First 8 PRs have been merged into the document, working with Tzviya on churning the editorial for the rest of the spec.

    - Tzviya: Originally hoped to get this done by mid-June, but we’re pushing that out about a month. You might be tagged if you were a reviewer, so keep watch on those.

    - Alex: Will be coming soon, hopefully the improvements are better versions than what has come before. Shout out to Rose for all those tweaks and adjustments.

  - Revised Roadmap and timeline

    - Tzviya: PRs in mid-July, people will be in and out during the summer, we’re hoping to have them open for a week to have time for additional reviews and feedback. Still need to confirm these dates with my manager, Philippe, asking for a charter extension to complete the publication in the extended timeline. We’re chartered until the end of the year and we’ll be working on the recharter and announcing it at TPAC. Need to work on this in July. Need to think what we will work on as part of the recharter. Lots to do on the impact model, it’s a huge deliverable. We need what version of the impact model will be delivered as part of this document. It doesn’t have to be complicated, maybe people have opinions on what format they’d like the impact model to take.

    - Alex: I don’t think we need to overcomplicate it, it’s well-thought out and Fish has put in great work to make it as robust as possible. The measurement team is happy with the end result. It’s more about presentation and how to format it, whether it’s one big table or break down by guideline, markdown document, and so on.

    - Tzviya: Respec is the tool W3C use for spec production. Alex is a pro at it. Could see working with Chris and others at GSF to automate some things based on SCI for Web.

    - Alex: For presentation, if we get the go ahead, I can put it together in Respec per guideline format.

  - Tim: What we’re working on now and what we’re looking to do moving forward, what are we missing, if we will recharter are there any pressing concerns, things we haven’t touched on at all or moving in a direction that is concerning. Does anyone have thoughts to share?

- **Community + News**

  - TBD

  - One from Chris at Green Web Fdn - asking for input

    - _(sorry I can’t make it today, but this might be relevant to folks on the call - Chris)_

    - <https://www.thegreenwebfoundation.org/news/consulting-on-supporting-certification-schemes-in-carbon-txt/>

    - <https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/carbon.txt/issues/31>

    - Tim: Thinking about how to make sustainability commitments for tech companies publicly available to both humans and machines, good resources in those above links, to get a good understanding of what they’re working on.

  - Sid: Questions about impact ratings and evaluation/STAR -- are we combining them together or have conversations around that?

    - Alex: STAR was based on what WAI had on Understanding Documents, I saw the resources scattered around WAI pages, had similar types of content, so I combined it into a singular resource for our version of them so they could be easily available to people who wanted to access evaluation methodology, techniques (if people were looking for ways to procedurally test for certain criteria), but as for how that would relate to the stuff that’s being done in relation to the impact API, it’s tricky because with GRI stuff, it doesn’t show how it’s being tested or something that clearly states on what to do in a particular way, more of showing based on our available evidence or what we believe in terms of the sustainability impact. There are not a lot of reliable models. If there is something like SCI for Web that we can equally test criteria and have sustainability impact for each of those, we could say we’ve tested x in a certain way, and so on throughout all of the criteria and could use that as basis for STAR techniques to prove that they are testable, coming up with energy impact results, and showing which is the most sustainable way of doing things. I’d need tooling to be able to produce those numbers and quantify it, it requires models and tooling, at this point STAR is more of what our best instincts are, based on our expertise to quantify what is most likely the “best practice” based on articles, citations, best evidence. Can’t quantify in an analytical way until there is tooling, I am hesitant to merge them at this point in time.

    - Tzviya: I don’t think we should publish STAR for now, hold off until next charter. Before we publish the guidelines, we should go through them where we have the supporting documents section  and decide which we link to, STAR is the first item we link to and we might want to publish the test suite or might not. We have the impact and we have to edit the conformance -- there is this concept of full conformance which is impossible. Given what Alex just said, I don’t think it’s ready to be put out there yet.

    - Alex: STAR is qualitative, not quantitative. Not necessarily conflicts with impact stuff, provides additional analysis. It’s definitely not ready to put through the notes in the statement status. It hasn’t had as nearly as much attention. I’ve updated the links but needs more work editorially. I don’t think the content there is necessarily incorrect, others have found it useful but some stuff will always be hard to quantify numerically, especially the business section. Had to push those to statement status.

    - Tzviya: There’s a step between [Github.io](http://github.io) and statement status -- we don’t have any of our documents to TR yet -- there’s a lot of checks that happen in that phase. Not just AC review but also internal checks. I have to check if we’re allowed to publish with links to [GitHub.io](http://github.io).

    - Sid: I’m a fan of methodologies and frameworks, so I studied STAR a lot. STAR is a step-by-step process of evaluating the web, and I see everything under an evaluation framework, and maybe that’ll be a useful document to look into as a team. The impact API that uses the impact variables can be used in STAR.

    - James: This whole conversation is the pro version of WSG, I agree generally that it should be completely baked before going in. In terms of framing this whole piece for people reading it, I wish there were some ways to do impact and let companies know how to go about doing that. For individuals and small teams, I’d like for them to not have to delve into numbers but let them pick their lane without overwhelming them on the technical details.

    - Tzviya: @James please review quick ref

    - Alex: When we go to the new impact system, the GRI stuff will be cleansed from that quick ref as well.

- **Other discussion/questions**

  - TBD
