# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-04-02

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle (IE), Eloisa Guerrero, Crystal Preston-Watson, Emma Horrell


### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely
TBD


### Scribes
Eloisa Guerrero

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Biz/Product intro update - [review Susannah’s draft](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/308)

     - Tim: From past meetings, it’s open for feedback so please offer input.

   - **Alex:** WSG Intro updates - [merged](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-sustainability-guidelines/#introduction); need further edits?

     - Alex: Merged updates into the Introduction. (Please see link) Individuals may spot things they feel the need to add anything. If anyone has thoughts/suggestions on how it could be improved, please raise issues in GitHub. This is a rewrite by myself and Rose. Effectively takes all the good stuff we had in the summary document and Tim’s work, Tzviya, Hidde, and the rest of the group working on the conformance, metrics, and an amalgamation into a more cohesive document that hopefully is fresher and more accurate than what the document reflects and contains more material. Should be more explanatory and hopefully nudge people to the right direction and explain concepts that we understand because we talk about this day to day but others may not understand/get the gist. Breaking down the points in the table of contents into a more structured format and hopefully easier to read.

     - Tim: Great, we had a lot of contributors on this too. Please review and take a look and if you have suggestions/recommendations for edits, please put them in GitHub.

     - Alex: I’ll take feedback in any way.

   - Homework updates - target date, **end of April**, revised WSG **June 15**

     - Tim: It is in progress, the target date is end of April so we have this month to do that. If you need a breakdown of assignments, see this [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ggoNUuTg2XgAcM3y3Ybed6500rCbhJ4HtjwQtQmRyE/edit?usp=sharing). This is the [cheatsheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wIKdcAx-0g8zxonqYG-BYgwy0DmJ7jLS5sjTb0nl39I/edit?usp=sharing) on what the homework project is, what it’s for, and how to give input.

     - Siddesh: This is really great, I started showing IT Directors these EHG reports, and tech sustainability is not there at all. I see a lot of potential and eventually web sustainability will start popping up in EHG reports. Do we have examples we can cite or showcase or are we planning to eventually come to that?

     - Tim: Alex has compiled resources of people who have done things and case studies, but still pretty sparse. If anyone has ideas/suggestions or if Alex would like to talk about the material collected over the months?

     - Siddesh: There are existing case studies in isolation, but what I am looking for are EHG reports which incorporate a separate chapter of the web sustainability?

     - Mike: Business falls to policy and regulation, and we haven't had the policies. There are good actors, companies, and organisations that understand the importance of this and are working to address that, it hasn’t gotten a lot of media attention. How do we raise awareness so we let people know what the real impacts of these things are?

     - Alex: Posted a [link to our campaign toolkit](http://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/campaign-toolkit.md) on anything related to the WSG and keeping it up to date on a semi-regular basis. There are some companies that are toying around with it, and in the sustainability channel, Nick Lewis mentioned about integrating WSG to tools. Trying to come up with ways of testing this stuff. We’ve got models like SCI for web which is about to start in the second stage, and better models for trying to calculate emissions alongside better ways of testing. We’re going to start seeing more organisations and individuals going about thinking how to start, and they will prioritise on whether resources, tooling, educational materials, automated tooling, or even third-party tooling to automate the process that will help designers, developers, people in business make the process a lot easier and less frictionful. There’s potential effort required to include this in our process if it’s not going to consume as much time and effort on their part.

     - Tim: The B Corp community still doesn't have a really good solid web sustainability plan. When it comes to widespread adoption even in those communities it’s still not happening yet and probably far in the field with other businesses.

     - Alex: The regulators are definitely interested in this stuff and we know there are organisations that are ethically focused and the educational institutions are interested. There are academic bodies who are already leaning towards doing sustainability into computer science programs. There is a push to try and get this stuff moving, it’s just the process of slotting things into place and developing this stuff. It will take time and money to do all of this, but once it does get produced, hopefully the shift should be fairly rapid to get all the ducks in a row.

     - Tim: Implement homework by June and include it in the spec itself.

   - Earth Day - **20 days**, how to make some noise, given our progress? ([benefits doc](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/benefits.html)?) - W3C blog post to share with your networks? Any other ideas?

     - Tim: We’re behind schedule, got great feedback on the spec and if there’s anything we want to do for Earth Day -- noise we want to make or any messaging, Tzviya mentioned the possibility of a draft for a blog post going on W3C. If anyone has any other ideas, the signal to noise ratio is very high but I think we have a really good story to tell.

     - Emma: There’s interest in digital sustainability and hitching onto the back of that and aligning it more broadly with UX and digital professionals. [USISA](https://www.ucisa.ac.uk/Events/2026/April/Digital-Sustainability-as-a-Force-for-Better-UX) which hosts the events, we have an audience of a couple hundred of UK higher ed digital professionals and I’m going to do a talk. We’re speaking to people who have already warmed up to this but how do we start, what is the policy, so top-down, bottom-up talking points that gets the ball rolling, how do we make this more formal and more impactful.

     - Mike: It’s useful to look for opportunities, if there’s a committee in your organisation, make an announcement, raise awareness, we get lost in the froth of information around Earth Day but I think we can still be part of it. It’s something we can be a part of and increase awareness.

     - Tim: I’ll be speaking at the B Corp Champions Retreat mostly for the US and Canada and I’ll give a pitch to WSG at the event. Has anyone else got anything going on? If not, spend the remaining time working on homework and just look at what’s assigned to you.

     - Mike: How do we manage the reviews in GitHub?

     - Tim: There are a bunch of issues in GitHub and comments trickle on a regular basis, so adding your voice to those would be encouraged. Getting differing opinions and ways of looking will help us make better work going forward.

     - Alex: Encourage people to look at other issues open on GitHub and not just the homework. Feel free to add comments to those as well.

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD