# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-03-05

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Thorsten Jonas, Siddhesh Wagle, Jen Strickland, Andrew Wright, Hidde de Vries

### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/4v8LSEtLMOgZiiOnznKsdGhMYBrvkIvKuV5-wb8y7sU9Q1w2CyOxpmD696OO3Cv3.skHsMZ-gh7XFCYje>

Passcode: 2+snC7!z


### Scribes
Siddesh Wagle

### Agenda + Notes
1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.
   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - **Tzviya: Recap:**

     - Lot going on with impact ratings. Amazing feedback. Need to figure out where to go with the information and what to publish and how it affects the performance. We should have the numbers in json. We are working on the conformance model. We have the evaluation methodology in the STAR doc. Hidde will talk about the different docs that we can create.

   - **Hidde:** Impact ratings/Scoring Methodology (distinct from EM) - continue discussion -

     - How to express nuance in metrics

       - Conformance models describe what it is and when you can claim that. (see Hidde’s [blog](https://hidde.blog/compliance-conformance/) conformance v compliance)

       - We can probably never meet all of the different requirements). In a lot of places around the world we need to conform with 100% of the standards. So if we are partially conforming we are ignoring a specific group of people (especially in accessibility). So sustainability is slightly different. We also don’t want green washing. We don’t want people to claim that our product is perfect. And we don’t want people to claim that our product is perfect because we meet all the standards.

       - Coming to the documents - something that is useful to think about as a group is regulators and large companies want to do that in a consistent way.

       - We’ve got a score in the impact system which makes things a lot more meaningful.

       - It’s important what the scoring means and how much one meets the standard and it is not the same as conformance. Maybe evaluation methodology, conformance and impact rating are separate documents.

       - Alex: JSON API has a property/value pair for a URI, directing people to a document we can create, documenting the methodology behind the metrics. This URI will be actively clickable on each impact score and auto injected into the intro under the measurement section by the API script. It provides us an opportunity that by having an uri in the JSON, these scripts help us to inject whenever an impact score is added.

       - Tzviya: We need to find nuance - progress over perfection.

         - Conformance provides texture. I’m not understanding how it becomes a binary

       - Alex: When we spoke to W3C members, they were looking for some data to know which items in the checklist have the most importance in terms of the impact it provided. It was the hint I was getting when we worked on this.

         - With regards to the success criteria, the SCs are the main point, regulatory speaking it is the normative part, the language they are looking for. If we want the regulators to take it seriously we need to look at the wording so that it can be taken in future legislations. 

         - We want people to make as much progress as possible and also coverage.

         - The focus thus should be on SCs.

     - Where to document the methodology and metrics

     - Discussion of JSON - where does this live? Is it valuable to publish

     - Hidde: It is really helpful to know what impact a guideline has

       - Conformance is when this product did a right thing and not interested in what way it did it. For example I’m buying a CMS system and whether it meets the conformance. For me conformance is about meeting a lot of guidelines.

       - In Europe it is to make things more accessible rather than make it accessible. Conformance is about making a claim that we’ve done everything.

     - Jen: This is why WCAG has levels A, AA, AAA.

       - It is progress over perfection. If you meet level A then it is more manageable. AA needs more work to be done. AAA is a lot harder and aspirational.

       - Having these levels helps regulators to adopt standards.

       - “You only meet standards if you meet all of them” in many cases is untenable and having these tiers make it easier.

       - Degrees of maturity - here is where you get started - as you mature you take the next level and so on.

     - Rose: I agree with what people have said about the tiers. Beyond regulators also think about the perspective of companies who are going to implement these. Having a nuanced approach helps different providers think about which areas they are strong - database/animation/accessibility/live streaming. There are different areas. They would be particularly good in certain areas. On the other hand it is good to do as much as you can to remove the bias.

       - It’s a communication challenge - education. It’s also about the consumers, buyers, and how people are marketing these products.

     - Tzviya: We have to pick up a primary audience - regulators or users?

       - Jen very much agrees

       - Also Kevin from WCAG has pointed out

       - If we are targeting regulators it is a very different document.

         - We have to make this decision and thus it is for regulators

         - We need to think about whether it should be about implementers and regulators come later

         - “What makes more sense for me as a website developer?”

     - Tim: I come into the camp that we are doing this as an implementor.

     - Tzviya: We spoke about a variety of documents

       - We have impact doc

       - Info about how we arrived at the impact doc

       - What do we do with this doc? Do we put these together?

       - Is it like Hidde suggested we have a scoring methodology document which can be a separate doc.

     - Jen: Two questions

       - What motivates implementers to meet the standards if it is not for regulation?

       - What other types of standards are there besides WCAG that we can look for alternatives for the techniques so that we can think about what fits us best?

     - Hidde:

       - Regulators is one group

       - People who are buying products also think about sustainable products - maybe they want to meet obligations because of ESGs.

     - Tzviya

       - When writing we don’t need to be concerned about regulations

         - But can be parallel to regulations such as Corporate responsibility

         - It is not going to make much of a difference how people work

     - ARIA - [Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/) - it shows implementation guide in EPUB space. More code in practice.

     - Alex: When we looked into GRI its intrinsic link to CSRD

       - It can be easily done with educational material - beyond those projects

     - Rose: Is it possible to reapply the tagging system in some form of scoring system - people are strong in particular area, we are able to classify them?

     - Alex: The tagging system is simplistically built. We could technically apply LOW, MEDIUM and HIGH thresholds to the tagging which we can use as filters. But we don’t want to add more complexity and it would be difficult to maintain.

     - Rose: Thinking more for the clarity of the consumers.

     - Tzviya: The way we have the tagging, it is the way it is built up. That’s your new career move, Rose 🙂

   - **Hidde/Tzviya:** Understanding/Techniques documents

     - Tzviya: If you are not familiar with these we have tones of them

     - Hidde: One thing different in WCAG - normative and non-normative. Depends on how formal they are. But it is a different type of doc - this is some info for you to understand. It would be helpful to be more clear about an official interpretation. They are valuable for people to understand 

     - Jen: It could be helpful for the group to create a short documentation about how WCAG is structured and the definition of things.

       - Techniques are examples of ways to meet Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). They are not required to meet WCAG.

       - We should probably look for where they are in 3.0. Coming up with the structure of how we write each one.

       - Understanding the base structures which was the main pain point AGWG had,. The more we do to get that initial template for each one to use will make us more productive.

     - Tzviya: We can definitely look at the work they did but we don’t have to emulate exactly. We are not throwing anything out. We are doing edits. A great way is to assign tasks.

     - Alex: Since we are doing edits is it worth considering the possibility of creating supplementary materials and APIs into separate repos?

       - As soon as we create a new release it updates the main doc in automatic edits. Triggers a new release when we try to review it.

   - **Alex/Rose:** Editorial update

     - Tim: Any blockers you are facing, Alex and Rose?

     - Rose: Alex has taken a lead on this one

     - Alex: We’ve got existing requests on repo, minor edit requests which we can immediately fix.

       - We don’t have further requests from the group

       - I can now work through merging and add it to the document

       - We need to potentially have a meeting to understand what is needed to be tweaked

   - **Tzviya:** TAG feedback: Does every SC stand up to our definition of sustainability? “The goal of Web Sustainability is to design, develop, and operate digital products and services such that they meet the needs of the present while ensuring future generations can meet their own needs.”

     - Tim: We needed specific feedback on how we use SCs to define web sustainability. What is TAG recommending?

     - Tzviya: We need to make sure every SC stands up to the definition.

       - Carbon tunnel vision - it is important for us to read the guidelines from fresh eyes as much as possible.

       - When I look at providing useful notifications - is it clear that this is connected to sustainability?

       - Share economic benefit - how is this related to web sustainability?

     - Rose: It would be rather helpful if people do have time to re-read and not just the sections you worked on. Read all the guidelines and not just the ones assigned. It would be helpful to review and update the introduction. The more pairs of eyes the better.

     - Tim: How to have issues in GitHub

     - Rose: Alex and I, it’s ok if you directly message us.

       - The idea is all of these guidelines can be understood by anyone.

     - Alex: The definition we have got for web sustainability - ensuring future generations meet their own needs. We’re asking people for future proof work. It;s a big task in the tech industry.

       - A generation ago we were talking about doing stuff in VB and Pascal.

     - Tim: It’s worth exploring

     - Tzviya: We need to come up with a definition. A max one or two sentence definition.

       - I’ll assign things to people. There are no stupid questions. Please post on GitHub even if you feel it is stupid, because many people might have the same question.

       - It’s not anybody secretive we need to know what is happening

       - In a few days I’ll create an [assignment list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ggoNUuTg2XgAcM3y3Ybed6500rCbhJ4HtjwQtQmRyE/edit?usp=sharing) to ask people who are working on what.

     - Jen: I wanted to full stop what Rose said about reading rest of the doc

       - It’s unrealistic but it is important. One way I did that was to print.

         - So that I can refer back and forth as if it is a book

     - Rose: Please note: Web Dev is long, Infra is short, Strategy is easier reading... There are definite differences.

     - Rose: I'm also thinking about opportunities to work more effectively and save work further on. Previously, it's been apparent some people were proposing things that were already covered in the same section.

     - Jen: If we are going to work on web sustainability definition we need a ticket

     - Tim: There is already one

       - <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/219>

     -

4) **Community + News**

   - TBD

5) **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD

