# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-03-19

**Attendees**: Tim Frick (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Alisa Bonsignore, Kazuhito Kidachi, Christian H Brown, Crystal Preston-Watson, Fershad Irani, Morgan Murrah, Susannah Hill

### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings wide
<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/NmDO9BXcTkx4zAnRIMEH6Z2asHQV9VAoZ3jV7or1hlWjbKldEnTxO2cAAEbKJEzy.rm60ujxZ8TLjCsFY>

Passcode: 09tm.#=g

### Scribes

Tzviya (scribed from recording)

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - TBD

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Impact Ratings update

     - Webdev needs input, UX still needs some, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16

     - Tim: Susannah and I have done Product and Business Ratings.

     - Fish: Thanks to all for feedback. Some remain in UX. The whole web dev section needs to be done. I’ll update next week.

     - Susannah: Thank you for assembling this in the first place - huge amount of work

     - Fershad: We need people to go through the Web Dev Guidelines impact ratings

     - TIm: What about the process for what to do when this is all done. Alex has the JSON ready.

- Homework update: process, [cheat sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wIKdcAx-0g8zxonqYG-BYgwy0DmJ7jLS5sjTb0nl39I/edit?usp=sharing)

  - James put together a cheat sheet to help get bearings.

  - We flagged some to discuss here with the larger group

  - 244: [Use automation wisely](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/244) -

    - Tim: I appreciate James’s suggestion. A lot of orgs will feel this - good feedback

    - Fershad: Where are we with conformance? That could stop some people because they won’t be able to meet the SCs (e.g. AI w quantum resilience).

    - Tim: Tzviya and Hidde have been working on a Conformance doc. We will discuss in depth soon. Flagging this kind of thing will be helpful. It will get published along with the spec.

    - Alex: We were considering having a B-Corp style with points

    - Fershad: Tzviya allocated sections with which we are not familiar. I am still not comfortable with having so many guidelines that are aimed at organizational practices. I have tried to fit these SCs into the definition, but I still feel like there is room for pushback.

    - Tim: That has been the most common conversation. In order to support sustainability across the org, leadership needs to support it and have buy in. These are “non-normative”, but if these are not adopted, they fall through the cracks.

    - Susannah: I wrote a note to Tzviya recently about whether W3C has other specs about organizational requirements. In order for technical teams to do this, don’t they need buy in? She doesn’t think so, and sustainability brings it to the front. Sustainability brings externalities to the fore. It brings the issue of having to take responsibility for these impacts to the forefront, and that is new. Organizational structure being part of the specification has not been called out, but sustainability makes this need more obvious. It exists in a11y as well. I would argue that it exists elsewhere as well. It is worthwhile for us to describe what an organization looks like.

    - Fershad: in bus/product strategy section, there are a lot of Guidelines with just one SC, we might be able to do another round of merging

    - Tim: There is a lot of room for improvement if we have the time. We might even consider bringing this into our next charter.

    - Fershad: Some of the guidelines effectively said follow the law, so there might be room for edits

  - 264: [Responsible data practices](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/264)

  - 252: [Ensure layouts work for different devices and requirements](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/252)

  - 259: [LCA](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/259) - ‘functional unit?’ Assessment vs. Analysis

  - 263: [JEDI](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/263) - different term?

- Should we have a meeting next week? (Breakouts Day)

  - TBD

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Fershad: You mentioned that the chairs reallocated some of the homework?

   - Tim: We looked through the progress that’s been made, and we reallocated in Tzviya’s spreadsheet - she did it earlier today. She gave more to me and Ines. If you have time, let Tzviya know

   - Susannah: On Slack a few of us chatted about whether we in this group are operating in a green way. It’s not an easy topic. GitHub is not going away quickly. Tzviya and I are inventorying the tools we use. Once we get a complete list, we will figure out which are used most, etc. We are taking this very slowly.

   - Christian: In some of the SCs there are inconsistencies, such as British v American spelling (organization v organisation)
