# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-01-29

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Alisa Bonsignore, James Christie, Siddhesh Wagle, Andrew Wright, Nick Lewis, Susannah Hill


### Recording
Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/MzHAS3bLaogbDsU6poz3qPwfxBXvfmLKrHJxOjy4ndtQrp-6SsQ9PFLF-9dFUhWA.uszbFCC089jNU6F0?startTime=1770300199000
Passcode: 2mZn+6x*

### Scribes
James C

### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Tzviya: Impact Guidelines on measurable guidelines vs all -

     - Tim: What to measure, how to measure, when to measure…

     - Tzviya: last week there was a proposal to adjust the impact guidelines, to only measure quantifiable / measurable things. 

     - Business & Product - hard to measure many SCs or to define / get metrics.

     - Let’s discuss

     - James: this is welcome - this reminds me of differences between sections, maybe it goes on a process checklist. Hard to use the word conformance for things on the HR things - what does appoint a sustainability advocate mean? Can conformant only apply to measurable things? I like the idea of a quantifiable set / a separate mechanism to make a statement about the other items.

     - Rose: our understanding of weighting also changes over time. So some things should be provisional. AI: we don’t have the data, importance could be less/more.

       - Conformance is an important term. Works well for binary choices e.g. “we minified the code”
       - Other SCs - hard to call them “conformant” without risk of greenwashing.

     - Susannah: Conformance works well with an engineering mindset; many of these are hard to define with engineering criteria.

       - What about the pieces that show our org is going in the right direction? A way to signal progress.

       - We could define individual ways to conform for each SC

       - There is value in saying you conformed even if not done well; this beats the risk of inadvertent greenwashing

     - Alex D: other specifications show multiple approaches to defining implementation.

       - Straightforward e.g. : Minification. Could use lots of different tools but outcome usually similar.

       - But many WSG guidelines have wide range of possible interpretations.

       - Some solutions may be left-field, outside our imagination. Can’t predict all the approaches.

       - WSG audience will be very varied.

       - Legislation: CSRD has a model that values the impact / output - show us you are making a difference. Less weighting on individual checkpoints.

       - One possible implementation for conformance in WSG would be to link guidelines to outcomes - e.g. measurable reduced emissions.

     - Tzviya: minification seems like a binary, but it has nuance - there are many approaches and they give different results. We don’t have a set percentage% target. So it’s funny we use minification as the straightforward example.

       - Conformance vs Compliance. A page is conformant. A site is compliant if a sufficient subset of pages has been passed as conformant.

       - W3C doesn’t do certification. We are writing the rules which (a 3rd party) could use to create a certification.

       - Progress over perfection. That was the motto for accessibility for a long time, but the resulting progress is slow. It’s changing - some legislation no longer accepts that - especially in the US, where it’s kind of vague.

       - It is worth having a distinction between: This is achievable vs this is a process

     - Rose: agree with Tzviya.

       - We don’t want to call our document wishy-washy.

       - This is a UX and communications issue.

       - Be honest from the outset - “all this is subject to change”. Technologies change, etc.

       - Be transparent about purpose, what data exists.

       - Usefulness of examples (not case studies)

       - Consider getting legal insight on how this might play out.

     - Sid:

       - Expert estimation (for when we don’t have a straightforward measure). “These measures will give approx 40% improvement” - an expert guess.

     - Tim: this could play into the json file.

     - Tzviya: where to now?

       - Leave impact ratings as is?

     - Susannah: we could document what we mean by compliance. Solidify this through consensus.

     - Rose: consider a workshop, so we can try making actual reports - play it out. Design thinking exercise.

       - Sid has the workshop expertise

     - Sid: workshops help us create a common definition

       - Eg shared values workshops

     - Tzviya: love the idea of a workshop

       - One step back:

       - The impact framework is still messy, we could clean it up first (or use the workshop to help define the impact framework)

       - We are not auditors ourselves

     - James: workshops good !

     - Tim: need Fershad in the workshop as he has been instrumental in impact to date

     - Tzviya: the moving pieces:

       - We need to complete the guidelines

       - Sounds like we are describing an evaluation methodology document. Let’s pace ourselves.

       - Workshop format suggestion: virtual face-to-face

       - Workshop goal: get the guidelines to required completeness / quality.

     - Sid: If the entire internet implemented WSGs, what percentage reduction in carbon emissions could be expected? And how confident are you in that estimate?Wwe all have our own wild guesses

     - Tim: all models are wrong, some are useful

     - Alex: in STAR, we have an evaluation methodology built in. So some of that hard work could be applied to the WSG.

     - Rose: agree it could be too much to work through each guideline in the WSG for this workshop.

       - Clarify goal of workshop (or multiple, b/c time zones)

       - Happy to lead any workshops Sid cannot.

       - Ppl get stuck in the details, but having a worked visual example should help get us to agreement

   - Conformance

     - [draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ySGRtiPDSpFz4vl0DWSNBZ8p5FHXnmyKNSUqGnipjVQ/edit?usp=sharing) available for review

       - Tzviya: this is me Alex, and lots of other people.

       - Will be showing this to relevant W3C experts.

     - Can WSG have a subset of **essential** criteria that need to be met to claim conformance?

       - Tzviya: e.g. must hit these 5 SCs as a minimum.

       - Tim: feels tricky (sorry, lost this)

       - Tzviya: Think in sections: the web dev team has made an effort and met all criteria. That way, if you can’t change the hosting (section 4), doesn’t stop the web dev team

       - Alex: we had the previous model of conformance from the SC upwards: “we met % of section 3 SCs, we completed these guidelines, etc”.

       - Tim: public claims are important too.

         - Chris Adams has a lot of these conversations eg carbon.txt.

       - Rose: features of reporting vary by vendor, e.g. some green hosts have certain tools. But we have to be careful about naming companies.

         - Examples of how certain companies are winning.

       - Sid: maturity models. WCAG has one. “Where does your org stand in relation to your WSG profile”., <https://www.w3.org/TR/maturity-model/>

       -

     - Can we establish % + essential?

   -

4. **Community + News**

   - Informal meetups are encouraged!

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - If WCAG is “wuh-cag” , is WSG “whizzgee”?

   - Tim read Gerry McG’s new book. Like “an uninhabitable earth”. 99th day comes out on Monday. 600 pages. <https://gerrymcgovern.com/books/99th-day/>

   - For a fun optimistic climate fiction book, try The Future by Naomi Alderman


