# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-01-08

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Siddhesh Wagle, Andrew Wright, Eloisa Guerrero, Susannah Hill, Anne Faubry, Crystal Preston-Watson, Chris Adams, Emma Horell, Nick Lewis, Sorca Duffy


## Recording: Permission to record and share recordings widely
https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/KETk5gFp7HK39tB2jGciRm90HSYZ6J3ftt6hBFKc2dcaAyI-lGJk-6-n-LitQ8Uo._r815jiRDcj0FgMY
Passcode: B@749aJx 


## Scribes
Eloisa

## Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.


3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - [Roadmap](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/README.html#schedule): updated schedule to get to published Note

     - Not likely to make original Earth Day target date

     - Tim: April 22nd is not realistic -- based on W3C process and feedback from stakeholders in the document. Last day of October of this year is the last day of charter.

     - Alex:Subject to change and fluctuate depending on whether we need more time or finish earlier.

   - [Impact Ratings](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/178) (feedback due by early next week)

     - Tim: If you have feedback on this, please see the spreadsheet and add to the GitHub issue.

     - Rose: At what stage are we able to test the ratings? Once we have some of our own subjective ratings, e.g. 50-100 websites, whatever we are able to automate in terms of checks, we can use machine learning that is local and secure to tweak the ratings and see what it reveals, based on what we can detect from the websites and what the algorithm can detect if something is off.

     - Alex: Based on community’s input and our accumulated knowledge of sustainability, we believe it’ll be based on prior GRI ratings in the specification, environmental impacts, other aspects of ESG, it’s fairly subjective but using this as a starting point and initial score that can be further improved. We can take SCI for the web, SWD model, HTTP archive data to get a wider subset of websites, and when tooling comes along we can start using that as well. This is a starting point to give people an idea of where it potentially will lie, but once we have models and wide data to reliably use we can update that data. Also depends on whether we can do that within the time frame / deadlines to meet. It will be able to function separately from the specification but we want a stable version to ship with it. Some data is time-dependent such as HTTP archive, but we can work out measurability scoring and explain to people what we’ve got to start with and what the progress is being made.

     - Rose: Even if we’re not setting an algorithm, some elements of initial testing and data sets and refining that is beneficial to ensure our weighting is as accurate as possible -- smaller dataset will be easier to tweak by humans than machines but once it gets larger, machines will get better at doing that. Just want to ensure we don’t go live that can be easily criticised for overweighing certain factors.

     - Tim: We’ll be doing horizontal review with ratings and impact included in that.

     - Rose: Smallest sample set such as 10 or so, humans can do it and then machines can take over with higher datasets.

     - Tzviya: When we’re doing the review and adding feedback that has to include the testing -- this is built in just not explicit about it. We’re going to be doing testing and measuring impact.

     - Tim: Built modularly so it’ll be easy to test and tweak.

     - Sid: Do we have any guidelines on how to apply before even the metrics are published? Are people following their own methods of applying the guidelines? Have people started using it?

     - Alex: We have a group working on conformance, on how explicitly people should be applying and meeting the success criteria and guidelines, and showing conformance in meeting WSG. Needs a lot of work on it, so the TF will look into it in a more legislative and W3C way to explicitly ensure that people are trying to conform to WSG and put guardrails in place. There are some good case studies in our campaign toolkits that some organisations have shown what they’ve done and their processes -- good for implementation reports.

     - Sid: I’ve shared a Google Drive link/Excel link on the GitHub issue that people can use to go through the guidelines and use it as a checklist even before the metrics are available.

[WSG Checklist](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19bv6bRiXdkry5oSo8ifBYZtFuHE-v4CT0E2SRytCNdA/edit?usp=sharing)

- Tzviya: We’ve asked for feedback on impact by today.

- Tim: Sooner we can get this feedback and have lively/robust shared issues on the GitHub repository, the better. If folks can take the time between now and early next week, we’d like to get as much feedback as possible.

* Reminder to review [SCI for Web](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/pull/199) for W3C feedback by 15 Jan

  - Alex: They’re hoping to get it out soon for public reveal, now available for public feedback and comments. May be another useful model to help our Measurability TF to utilise and measure against the success criteria we have.

  - Tzviya: We as a group can provide feedback, so if we have any to deliver as formally from the W3C we can do that.

  - Tim: The best route for that is in the GitHub issue and create comments in there.

* HR: (target completion: 1/15)

  - Privacy ([#207](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/207)) (received not completed)

  - Internationalization ([#147](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/147), [#202](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/202)) (received not completed)

  - Accessibility ([#205](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/205)) (received not completed)

  - Security (TBD)

    - Tzviya: Expected to be mild.

  - TAG (TBD)

    - Tzviya: Not sure what kind of comments, could be suggestions or significant changes. Won’t happen by January 15 or in January at all.

    - Alex: Put a note for this in April, separated from horizontal reviews because we’ll need extra time on this.

* New meeting time:

  - [3rd Wed of every month](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/eeb213f8-e9f8-49b2-b60f-300d514a520b/20260121T000000/) at midnight UTC

  - First meeting at this time: January 21/22

  - No meeting on Thursday 1/22 and every third Thursday thereafter

4. **Community + News**

   - TBD

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - Susannah: In Slack, there’s some discussion about being greenhosted and what that would entail. The idea is to have some discussions and pull threads together to see what the barriers are, low hanging fruit to start to work on, maybe a pilot to run for our collaboration instead of Slack and maybe become a prototype for the rest of the W3C. The W3C is on GitHub and the tech world lives on GitHub and we might need to talk about advocacy and industry influence in order to improve greenhosting there. There’s a chat on Slack about this topic. No hurry, still talking, but I think we can’t just do nothing.

   - Chris: We’re in the process of updating our own verification criteria because it’s hard to get a clear yes/no when looking at what organisations are saying -- we’ve had to revise guidance to people/organisations on how to use greenhosting. There is an early version of our new verification criteria that we’re publishing, should be out next week and welcome any feedback on that. In the meantime, there is a discussion about how you classify energy as green in the first place. With the greenhouse protocol, the consultation’s deadline is moved to the 31st of January. [Sneak peek on how to power digital infrastructure with green energy. ](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSewJ7wQcnov36kDjQbrc-wKe0grI2_66qfB6_h0FF9bubPYbA/viewform)But what we ask people to do -- we have the directory and we’re planning on updating it to revise the criteria. There are ways you can say you’re running on green energy without it being particularly green, and  that’s one of the problems that we’re struggling with.

     - [How I think of decarbonising the energy used by datacentres on the grid](https://rtl.chrisadams.me.uk/2026/01/how-i-think-of-decarbonising-the-energy-used-by-datacentres-on-the-grid/)

   - Tzviya: Need to talk to W3C before we can start a prototype.

   - Susannah: Trying to explore what we can do.

   - Rose: Wanted to ask people’s green New Year’s resolutions. Mine is to move away from Big Tech.

     - Alex: Still doing WSG!

Tim: [Build a More Sustainable Marketing Stack](https://www.mightybytes.com/insights/sustainable-marketing-stack/)
