# W3C Sustainable Web IG Meeting Agendas & Notes 2026-04-23

**Attendees**: Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Alexander Dawson (Lead Editor), Rose Newell (Editor), Thorsten Jonas, Eloisa Guerrero, Alisa Bonsignore, Susannah Hill, Siddesh, James Christie, Crystal Preston-Watson


### Recording

Permission to record and share recordings widely

<https://w3c.zoom.us/rec/share/Jl_VdvRpDSoNZ9m6yWKODBivLJBYUeNmpaFMRp-4pQpSEqluw04CXC0t2U4LAcFd.ibqv7cBeUhUWhKwX?pwd=DIaQJCypQROcuKNMqAAAIAAAAPmQlGNt4auAJvRbfWqn5r8GPyl7shiui2wsOqOPDiOexuDpo-AbpAwX0bQL767sXjAwMDAwNA>


### Scribes

Eloisa Guerrero


### Agenda + Notes

1. Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

2. **Questions/comments** from the last meeting.

   - OK to move the Asia meeting one hour earlier?

     - Mike: Mostly for Tim to be able to attend, any concerns having the meeting an hour earlier (Asia timeslot only once a month)?

     - Tzviya: Christian Brown based in Japan prefers the current time. Double-check with Fershad and folks who usually attend that meeting - when we make a decision we’ll send out an announcement.

3. **Topics of discussion (**[****Kanban****](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198) **/** [****WSG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg) **/** [****IG****](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues)**)**

   - Keep at peer review

     - Mike: Want to do initial primary review of all the SC created and evaluated against the definition of web sustainability that we’ve linked to within the homework assignment and get it reviewed again, peer-reviewed, and hand off to Alex and Rose to implement as best they can the suggestions in the additional reviews.

   - Discussion based on homework:

     - [283](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/283)

       - **5.7 Validate efforts using established third-party certifications**

       - Mike: This goes beyond what the W3C has done historically with identifying certification bodies and structures. How do people feel about third-party certifications? Has anyone had a chance to review it? There are a number of people involved in creating third-party evaluation processes and tools that are part of this initiative but want to ensure we’re not introducing bias as part of this process. How do we feel about validating efforts to establish third-party certifications?

       - Alex: When I saw that SC, I started looking at third-party certifications for resources material and there were a number of sustainability certifications that cross over into digital in one way or another and some are well-established, e.g. B-Corp Certification in the business section; there are others that do it in one way or another, but in Germany there is Blue Angel that do have some form of validation or labeling or certification that we can potentially link to, but it depends on the type of business environment as to whether it would apply to them, depends on what exactly is being produced to determine whether it’s relevant or not. As long as the certification-- if relevant to them-- can bolster their rigor in terms of what sustainability efforts to apply. Depending on sustainability certification, assuming it comes from a decent supplier/certification scheme. It comes down to the wording.

       - Susannah: To build on Alex’s point on wording, this SC is meant to point people towards certifications. I suggest a yes/no review whether there are certifications that apply-- along the lines of looking for them and deciding if they apply.

       - Tzviya: Hidde commented that this doesn’t exist in WCAG, but we don’t have the business aspects in WCAG so I agree with Alex and Susannah that we need to figure out how to reword this and look at the conformance model and certification, conformance by section and not just as a whole (role-based conformance).

       - Ines: Maybe it’s just the wording, but to be very careful of the scope, it could become discouraging if it gets too strict. They can become very strict and it makes it difficult for machine testability or defining what is good enough to get a certification. Taking some real world constraints into consideration and be careful of the wording and scope to cover and what not to cover.

       - Alex: We have considered barriers to entry within other guidelines so scoping cost to consumers is something we could consider as a parallel within the wording, W3C has a very wide audience so people in developing nations could have differences in cost, what they can potentially afford versus higher-income nations who can afford certification schemes. One of the reasons why we went for GRI rather than ISO certification for looking/calculating the efficient models due to the cost whereas ISO is more pay-to-play. If we can make it yes/no, looking at certifications that exist, which ones are within remits in terms of cost within your industry, which ones will have sustainable impacts so defining yes/no applicability should hopefully provide the impact we’re going for.

       - Rose: To add another perspective, building on what Ines said but in agreement with what others have said, when it came to certification with animal rights movement, there were scandals over different certifications that allowed companies that tested on animals to label their products to be vegan, i.e. no animal testing, but in reality the more reliable mark of quality and not having tested on animals is from a voluntary organisation called Nature Watch -- my fear is that it needs not only to be applicable but appropriate -- there are some people who have real, genuine ethical objects to organisations like B-Corp, but there is a lot of greenwashing in these certifications. Because these things are not regulated, if we push people to certifications it could become off-putting and we cannot judge if those certifications are actually worth anything. I agree with Susannah on proceeding with caution, but I want to go further and say applicable, appropriate, and valuable because of the amount of greenwashing that is possible.

       - Tzviya: W3C doesn’t do certification so we won’t be responsible for this, for sure, but those of us in the accessibility community about the IAAP certification and some are not happy with it. We want to have some sort of accountability without falling into a trap of too much accountability that is not feasible, like labels that mean nothing.

       - Mike: Enough consensus around this to be able to move ahead?

       - Alex: I think we have good ideas we can build upon.

     - [284](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/284)

       - **5.8 Support mandatory disclosures and reporting**

       - Mike: Thoughts on Hidde’s initial review?

       - Tzviya: We’re talking about narrowing the scope because Farshad and Hidde have pointed out that we get a little bit too close with saying “follow the law” but we want to make sure we’re narrower in scope and be a bit more explicit about what we’re saying and aligning with the regulations that exist and not being too broad in scope.

       - Alex: Made a point in the comments that we do have another SC that is strictly about advocating for responsible legislation and it covers multiple aspects, wonder if it would be sensible to merge the two and focus on advocating for responsible legislation as opposed to pushing the legislative angle? If we’re advocating for this, it’s less about compliance and more of advocation angle, not telling people to follow the law.

       - Mike: The point you mentioned, Alex, wonder if it makes sense to talk about 5.1 as well?

       - Alex: In 5.1 specifically referring to SC on technology legislation is about advocating and complying with responsible legislation, transparency, accountability, and so on, focusing on digital sustainability, emerging technologies like AI, employment rights, and things we have broad coverage within the WSG. Rather than complying with this legislation or that, it makes sense to merge the two and have that singular SC that is about advocation.

       - Tzviya: A little torn about this, in some parts of the world, mandatory disclosure is the only real legislation that exists and the tone of 5.1 and 5.8 are different -- 5.1 is more for supporting employees and 5.8 is more about laws around emissions and maybe water. Do we need to strengthen 5.8 to talk about actual legislation around sustainability and using disclosure as an example instead of speaking just about disclosure?

       - Mike: Sounds like an interesting approach -- any concerns? Do we have enough for Alex and Rose to flesh it out?

       - Alex: Do you think we should, on the standards and policies SC, to take what’s there and strengthen it more towards the disclosure and reporting legislation?

       - Tzviya: The SC technology legislation is under the guideline Have an ethical sustainable product strategy, so maybe that SC belongs in its own guideline and we should have a technology legislation guideline -- it’s about following the law, not product strategy. Reporting requires infrastructure to support it, not just following the law.

       - Mike: Do we want people to actually follow the law or support the creation of better laws for modern digital tech?

       - Susannah: Or any laws.

       - Tzviya: 2 separate ones -- we’re not talking about advocating for new laws I think that’s not in here, it’s a separate conversation but right now it’s about creating the infrastructure to support existing laws.

       - Rose: I had a thought about how people talk about this in terms of security compliance, and you often talk about being able to anticipate future changes and future strengthening of the laws, so I think it would be good to comply with what is already there and going above and beyond those standards, being ready for what comes rather than waiting for implementation period to run out.

       - Tzviya: I agree with that but the whole set of guidelines is about anticipating what’s to come so I don’t know that we want to count on that in terms of policy.

       - Rose: I think it depends, at the moment there aren’t many binding laws but we could word it so we can anticipate.

       - Ines: I’m here to push on the boundary -- the whole business section is different to what a lot of other W3C groups/guidelines have, but in accessibility is there something similar to this? Is there something that should be in the boundary of the guidelines itself.

       - Susannah: I’ve been thinking all along that this definition of the sort of an organisation that needs to be in place to support effective rollout applies to accessibility but I think we should try to think about the type of an organisational support to be needed, we’re asking for a lot of execution and it is incumbent upon us to describe what is needed to support it. I think this definition of an organisation should be something that the broader organisation takes a look at.

       - Tzviya: This doesn’t exist anywhere else in W3C, closest thing is the draft note accessibility maturity model, where it looks at different aspects of an organisation and how accessibility can be supported in the org, but what we have in this section in our document is exactly which aspect of supporting the law -- are we looking at advocacy, infrastructural support, employment law, environmental law, and anything else we should be including?

       - Ines: Just to make sure we get the least amount of pushback for the next stage -- make it specific enough so we don’t get that much pushback.

       - Tzviya: We should make sure that within each guideline we are logically sound, and SC in 5.1 doesn’t exactly fit for me. In 5.1 we’re talking about product strategy and 5.8 is for advocating for responsible legislation, and I don’t think this is part of product strategy and I think we should either get rid of that one or move it. Open to discussion about that.

       - Susannah: I lean towards getting rid of it.

       - Ines: (gestures to “let’s cut it”)

       - Mike: Anything else on this we need to discuss?

       - Tzviya: I think the question in 5.8 is what Hidde was talking about is if this is more of a question of -- is 5.8 sufficient as is, or do we need to narrow scope?

       - Mike: And should we consider the web sustainability impact, not just environmental impact. Thoughts on this?

       - Alex: Because we’re describing the reporting aspect and disclosures, that’s intrinsic to what is part and parcel of the sustainability package as it currently stands. If you look at how GRI approaches sustainability, reporting is intrinsic. Sustainability reporting is something a lot of big organisations will need to produce, so we need to encourage good behaviour. In the EU, plus, 7 or 8 other nations, has a place within the guidelines for sustainability reporting.

       - Mike: Do we want to go off and evaluate what level of criteria need to apply and for smaller organisations, find things that are less applicable? 

       - Alex: Does it come under our conformance model? We specifically say that not everything applies to everybody and we structure it on SC, guideline level, section, spec levels, not like WCAG A, AAA, we don’t have the expectation that everyone will follow everything. Sustainability at the moment is not always measurable or not always applicable to everybody. Whatever model we choose, it needs to be something where we can have people choose the ones which are going to be most valuable and useful to them and work through those. I don’t think it’s as much of a dangerous issue if we have SC in there that applies to a smaller subset of the audience but still very useful for sustainability purposes.

       - Susannah: The audience I think as we see it extends from someone operating their own servers to the blogger that has a Squarespace account and we need to call that out and say that different SC will apply to different ones, but is valuable to everybody in terms of awareness.

     - [294](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/294)

       - **5.26 Use open source where possible**

       - Tzviya: I think the concern is whether this is in the right place, if it belongs in the business or web dev section -- not necessarily a duplicate or redundancy but is it in the wrong place.

       - Rose: I think it’s too short or vague, maybe think of the caveats or a nod back to the growing concern around digital sovereignty, if that makes sense; using it where possible is not always the most efficient solution either.

       - Alex: Background on this, the initial placement of it was from framing it around open source touching everything (UX, web dev, infrastructure, products, etc.) -- the conclusion was to put it in the product and business section because product is the most generic, overarching category. If we were going down the route of splitting business and product into separate categories like how Tim had come up with, might help to act as a differentiator, could help open source in products as opposed to having it in the business material. At the moment, people claim ownership over stuff in one section and one in another, the problem is open source isn’t just a web dev issue, also infrastructure, UX, etc. so it ended up in product.

       - Siddhesh: People are using AI to create their projects and making them open source, so maybe if we have SC that are encouraging open source but also say that they should be sustainable.

       - Tzviya: The part of this from a business perspective is to write an open source policy. A lot of organisations don’t have a sort of policy, and the developers do whatever they want. The open source aspect is happening across the board -- we’re not saying “do X sustainably in every single guideline” but we can talk about this from a policy or development perspective -- if we talk about the development aspect we can say use open source as much as possible, if we’re talking about this as a form of policy, we can say write an open source policy. We should pick one or the other.

       - Mike: Is there a way to do both without adding another SC?

       - Tzviya: I don’t think so, we expect people will read the sections that are relevant to them.

       - Rose: My issue is if we say having an open source policy, then we have to justify the connection to sustainability. If we talk more about the usage of open source, we need to be careful because there are open source solutions that are not as sustainable as other paid commercial solutions, so if we push open source without caveats, it’s dangerous and it could be taken out of context. Can qualify it as appropriate, well-supported, but we also have to be secure. It’s tricky and I want to be careful of blanket recommendations of open source. Could become less sustainable.

       - Tzviya: I think if we’re going to write a recommendation for open source, we should explain it, e.g. if we’re talking about AI, we want to be able to monitor it. We don’t want to say use open source just for the sake of, we want to explain it better than that, not necessarily identify every single instance of open source, but explain the reasons we’re recommending it.

       - Mike: But it is a sustainability perspective, if it’s open source, even if it’s the best solution, if somebody else controls it, they can take away your access, etc.

       - Rose: The biggest issue is the projects that have sufficient momentum, sufficient support -- there are a lot of open source projects that have been abandoned, looking at the sustainable CMS project has not been maintained in years so they are unusable -- maybe we need more guidelines about open source because W3C wants to encourage open source, we also need to offer guidance for it to be sustainable, including significant funding, numbers of contributors, etc. I think we’re on the right path and think more of expanding that, ensuring that people think about whether a project is properly supported -- if things aren’t supported, they get abandoned. This applies to commercial and open source procurement that don’t rely on systems without sufficient support. If you invest all your codebase on a system that will fall apart, you’ve got a problem. I think the point is, we need more guidance on that and brainstorm more about it.

       - Mike: You mentioned 3.16 looking at dependencies and potentially maintenance within their communities.

       - Siddhesh: If we can add open source in there too.

       - Rose: I think it’s more on the procurement aspect, but maybe we should expand on that one.

       - Alex: 3.16 was specifically for libraries and frameworks and such, but it doesn’t explicitly state whether code is open or closed source to ensure applicability to both types of models.

   - How are recent AI-related technologies trends are impacting our work (discuss and document at [**#4**](https://github.com/w3c/webai-roadmap/issues/4)) (continuing discussion from last week)

     - Mike: Will need to do this another time. 

4. **Community + News**

   - Anyone at GreenIO Singapore?

   - Green IO NY coming up

5. **Other discussion/questions**

   - TBD
