# Sustainable Web IG Metrics TF Minutes 2025-08-05

** Present:**  Alexander Dawson, Nicola Bonotto, Andrew Wright, Adam Newman, Fershad Irani , Oliver Winks

* We discussed the nature of the guidelines, and how they might relate to tooling etc.
	* We agreed that the guidelines should be general in their nature and wording.
	* Any specific guidance on how to implement a guideline or achieve a specific success criteria is the remit of tooling, and outside the scope of our current prioritisation/impact conversation.
* We asked the question - ___is it our role to come up with metrics/means of measurement___?
	* Things like SCI for Web are probably more suited for this, though we must acknowledge their narrow focus (energy/emissions). The WSGs are adopting a broader scope.
	* While we wait for other tools/measurement standards to be developed, ___how do we progress with having a way for people to measure their progress against the WSGs___.
		* Adopting a "yes/no" based wording for **success criteria** is the first step.
		* Alex explained that technically a guideline is only met once all success criteria have been fulfilled. However, with our approach of "progress over perfection" we will support a looser conformance standard.
* This led to a conversation about "assessing impact".
	* We agreed that the best way forward is to utilise the GRI impact buckets that are currently used - Energy, Materials, Water, Emissions.
	* Adam asked whether it's better to give each Success Criteria an impact rating or if we keep it at the Guideline level for now.
	* Fershad suggested sticking with the guideline level to reduce effort initially, given the number of Success Criteria we have.
	* Adam noted that in this case we treat all Success Criteria as equally important to the overall impact of a guideline.
## Next steps
In terms of next steps, Alex indicated that we don't have to wait for the ongoing edits to be complete as those are mostly focused on readability.

## Actions:

* Fershad Irani to create a spreadsheet that lists all the Guidelines, and has columns for impact categorisation based on the GRI impact buckets.
* Fershad will share this with the group.
	* Each member can pick two or three guidelines, and go through the exercise of assigning impact to for each GRI impact buckets.
* We can come back together next week (or even on Thursday) and give feedback on how we found the process.
	* If it feels manageable, then we can commit to having impacts/prioritisation for each guideline.
	* If it feels like a lot of work, we can then look at selecting a subset of guidelines to concentrate on.

## Further discussion:
* How do we go about weighting each GRI impact bucket?
* Do we treat them all equally, or assign different weights to them?
* How do we go about using the GRI impact buckets to inform Guideline prioritisation?

## Summary of Previous Meeting 2025-07-31
[Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LQ7FlwJ-XnplhPZng5S-b9XtJbXq7FEf/view?usp=sharing)

1. Get the guideline into boolean true/false statements (status: @Alexander Dawson working on this)
2. Get a consensus-based weighting for each guideline based on their "impact" (status: arrange a call next week?)
Also articulate what exactly we mean by "impact"
3. Based on that weighting, we can start to prioritise the guidelines (status: relies on #2)
Our goal: Is to get have a means of prioritising all (or a subset) of the guidelines. The user question we're looking to answer is "I want to apply the WSGs, what guidelines should I look at first?"
