# Metrics call - 2025-09-16

**Attendees:** _Mike Gifford, Adam Newman, Alexander Dawson, Fershad Irani_

**Minutes:**

- Adam shared the tool that they have been working on at Root and Branch. The idea behind it is to explore ways to assign a "certainty" and "magnitude" value to the impacts for each GRI category.
- After showing the tool, Adam raised the question of _how_ we go about assigning scores or impacts to different categories. At the moment we use a generic "low", "medium", "high" scale. Some other ideas that were spoken about was the idea of a "score" for each GRI category which is again an abstract measure. Adam floated the idea that for different GRI buckets we could consider having actual (meaningful) units of measurement for which to based our impact assessment on.
- Alex shared how the "low", "medium", "high" ratings for the GRI categories were arrived at last time.  https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/#measurability
- Alex shared the JSON API he's working on, and explained the script that he's building to bring in the work of the measurability taskforce into the guidelines.
- After much discussion we settled on having a "score" for each GRI category rather than using specific "units" of measurement at this time.
  - For simplicity, we agreed to work at the guideline level for now.
  - Each guideline having one headline "impact score".
  - In this way, we can present a way for exploring future "compliance ratings" or "compliance thresholds" based on the sum of these scores.
- Mike brought up the topic of how the spec can be used for tracking websites over time, and whether we're able to give people the ability to adjust the underlying data that's been used to create that "single" impact score.
  - Alex explained that the underlying individual scores for each Guideline (each GRI category) would be linked to from the spec.
- Mike raised the question of how we could make some kind of "compliance threshold" approachable to smaller websites. Alex pointed out that this is probably the domain of external tools.
- Mike gave us guidance on how adopting "whole of system" based thinking would be beneficial in what we are trying to achieve. He pointed at the example of WCAG which is limited to the page level, and is something that is viewed by some as detrimental to its success.
- Fershad reiterated that our main aim right now is to have _something_ for impacts and prioritisation of guidelines to share prior to TPAC. We can always allude to future ideas or plans, and take on board feedback once we have a first pass out there for consumption.

**Next steps**
- We continue working with the 4 GRI categories (energy, emissions, water, materials) for now.
- Prepare a spreadsheet which lists out all the guidelines & each GRI category. (Could probably reuse the one shared in https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96 with slight changes).
- Meet as a group next week & go attempt to go through 5 guidelines together to evaluate the "scoring" process.

**Next meeting**
Tuesday 23rd September, 11am UK time (10am UTC).
