# Sustainable Web IG Metrics TF Minutes 2025-08-26

*Present: Alexander Dawson, Oliver Winks, Fershad Irani*

**Minutes:**
- Alex gave us an explaination of what was decided at the last general meeting ([minutes](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/blob/main/minutes/2025-08-21.md)).
  -  We are not expecting to deliver measurability recommendations in time for the September 15 publishing deadline.
  -  We can add measurability recommendations after the publishing deadline. This gives us more time to "get it right" in terms of our approach.
- Fershad suggested that Ryan's suggestion of trying to identify suitable metrics for guidelines as a good place to start moving forwards. (see [comment in issue](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/96#issuecomment-3188818272))
  - We acknowledged that while it would be nice to have suitable metrics for each guideline, that might not be possible and that is okay.
  - Oliver spoke about an idea Adam Newman is working on which should allow us to do this as a group.
  - _We agreed that it would make sense for us to work with what Adam has already started working on rather than running off and duplicating effort._
    - One thing we hope we can achieve is to identify some guidelines where we as a task force have a shared view of the suitable metrics/impact. These can be quick wins, and allow us to have more deeper conversation on guidelines where there is diverging opinions.
  - Oliver also mentioned some additional tooling they were working on to make user discovery of appropriate guidelines possible. We agreed this was somethign that was out of scope of this task force at this time.
- Fershad spoke about the importance for keeping a tight scope when looking at metrics for guidelines.
  - As a group we agreed that to this, we need to answer the question _"what is the goal of the measurability task force?"_ (see [issue](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/98))
- Alex also gave us an insight into how future editorial changes might adjust the guidelines, namely that it is unlikely until horizontal review is complete that guideline intent would change significantly. There may be some merging of success criteria before then.

**Actions:**
- Adam to share what he's been working on prior to the next meeting.

**Next Meeting:**
- We agree a meeting is required next week (Tuesday September 2, 2025) to maintain momentum. Optional times are:
  - 10am UK, 9am UTC, 5am US East
  - 12pm UK, 11pm UTC, 7am US East
  - 1pm UK, 12pm UTC, 8am US East
- Agenda:
  - Reach a concensus on the "goal" of the measurability task force.
  - With this, be clear in what scope we will keep when assessing suitable metrics for guidelines.
  - Potential get a walkthrough of what Adam has been working on.
