# Metrics call - 2025-09-23

**Attendees:** _Mike Gifford, Alexander Dawson, Fershad Irani_

**Minutes:**

- Discussed how we can use the AI generated ratings that Mike has captured [in this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hqzz3SmGbU23vwen-Ugcxf3_iYxEDVW-Lu3Uxw_z0TU/edit?usp=sharing) to help speed up the process of grading guidelines and prioritisation.
- Alex asked if there is any basis that can be used to support the ratings that the AI tooling generated for each guideline.
    - Mike suggested that the AI ratings can serve as a starting point for us, given the number of guidelines that we are dealing with at this moment. It's something that can be built upon.
    - Alex noted that the original GRI methodology received criticism during review as it was not seen to be rigerous enough. He worries that the same could happen again.
    - Mike and Fershad both noted that it'd be really hard for us to have a rigerous, completely evidence based methodology anyway, and it's better to start somewhere and evolve from there.
- All attendees agreed with Alex's suggestion to explore whether we can do a comparison between the ratings the AI has provided and the original GRI ratings. This can help highlight some definite areas for the group to focus dicussion, and can help us progress.
    - With this in mind, Mike reran the AI rating prompt to return "low", "medium", and "high" ratings for each guideline.
    - Fershad wrote a script to get the existing GRI ratings from the API and added those to the spreadsheet as well.
- In a previous call, we discussed that the GRI ratings for each guideline should be converted into a "score" that can help rank and prioritise guidelines. As a result, we settled on "low" = 1, "medium" = 2, and "high" = 3.
- Fershad has updated the spreadsheet with this scoring structure, and generated overall impact scores for each guideline.
    - These can be used to compare the AI ratings with the original human submitted ratings, to highlight which guidelines the group should discuss in the next call.

**Next steps**

- Next meeting will begin to go through guidelines and agree on ratings. This could be a multi-week process.
- Fershad will share an agenda of guidelines where the delta between human and AI ratings is large. These guidelines should be covered first.

**Next meeting**
Tuesday 30th September, 11am UK time (10am UTC).


### Guidelines to discuss on next call
See https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hqzz3SmGbU23vwen-Ugcxf3_iYxEDVW-Lu3Uxw_z0TU/edit?usp=sharing

The guidelines below are ones which were all rated as "high" in the original (human) GRI ratings, but which AI has rated as "low" impact.

- 5.8	Implement sustainability onboarding guidelines
- 5.17	Share economic benefits
- 5.23	Include responsible financial policies
- 5.24	Include organizational philanthropy policies

The guidelines below are ones which were all rated as "low-medium" in the original (human) GRI ratings, but which AI has rated as "medium-high" impact.

- 2.23	Reduce the impact of downloadable and physical documents
- 3.2	Remove unnecessary or redundant information
- 3.13	Ensure layouts work for different devices and requirements
- 3.22	Reduce the number and complexity of database queries
- 4.1	Choose a sustainable service provider
- 4.3	Compress files where it is beneficial
- 4.5	Avoid maintaining unnecessary virtualized environments or containers
- 4.9	Consider the impact and requirements of data processing
- 4.11	Ensure infrastructure fits project requirements
